---
title: "Unpacking Amazon’s unique ways of working | Bill Carr (author of Working Backwards)"
date: "2023-11-02"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Bill Carr"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Bill Carr is the co-author of Working Backwards: Insights, Stories, and Secrets from Inside Amazon. With a background at Amazon of over 15 years, Bill played a pivotal role in shaping the company’s gl"
word_count: 15156
youtube_id: "S9WHQa_AJQo"
---

... Jeff would say, we took it as an article&nbsp; of faith. If we served customers well,&nbsp;&nbsp; if we prioritized customers and delivered for&nbsp; them, things like sales, things like revenue and&nbsp;&nbsp; active customers and things like the share price&nbsp; and free cash flow would follow. So therefore,&nbsp;&nbsp; when we're making a decision thinking about&nbsp; a problem, we're going to start with what's&nbsp;&nbsp; best for the customer and then come backward from&nbsp; there. That informs what's the work you have to do&nbsp;&nbsp; to then create this new solution for customers. Today my guest is Bill Carr. Bill is the co-author&nbsp;&nbsp; of the book Working Backwards, which is a&nbsp; synthesis of the biggest lessons that Bill and his&nbsp;&nbsp; co-author learned from their many years at Amazon.&nbsp; Bill joined Amazon just five years after it was&nbsp;&nbsp; founded, stayed there for 15 years where he worked&nbsp; on the books business, and then as VP of Digital&nbsp;&nbsp; Media, launched and managed the company's global&nbsp; digital music and video businesses, including&nbsp;&nbsp; Amazon Music, Prime Video, and Amazon Studios.&nbsp; After Amazon, Bill was an executive in residence&nbsp;&nbsp; at Maveron, an early stage VC firm, then chief&nbsp; operating officer at OfferUp. And these days, Bill&nbsp;&nbsp; runs a consulting firm called Working Backwards,&nbsp; LLC, where he and his co-authored, Colin Breyer,&nbsp;&nbsp; help growth stage and public companies implement&nbsp; the many practices developed at Amazon.

&nbsp; In our conversation, we go many levels deep&nbsp; on how to actually implement a number of the&nbsp;&nbsp; practices and ways of working that helped Amazon&nbsp; become the success that it is today, including the&nbsp;&nbsp; process of how to actually work backwards, how to&nbsp; organize your team with a single-threaded leader,&nbsp;&nbsp; how to divide up your metrics into input and&nbsp; output metrics, how to practice disagreeing&nbsp;&nbsp; and committing, how to implement the Bar Raiser&nbsp; program in your hiring process and so much more. Huge thank you to Ethan Evans for making&nbsp; this episode possible and introducing me&nbsp;&nbsp; to Bill. With that, I bring you Bill Carr,&nbsp; after a short word from our sponsors. Today's episode is brought to you by Assembly AI.&nbsp; If you're looking to build AI powered features in&nbsp;&nbsp; your audio and video products, then you need to&nbsp; know about Assembly AI, which makes it easy to&nbsp;&nbsp; transcribe and understand speech at scale. What I&nbsp; love about assembly AI is you can use their simple&nbsp;&nbsp; API to access the latest AI breakthroughs from top&nbsp; tier research labs, product team to startups and&nbsp;&nbsp; enterprises are using Assembly AI to automatically&nbsp; transcribe and summarize phone calls and virtual&nbsp;&nbsp; meetings, detect topics in podcasts, pinpoint&nbsp; when sensitive content spoken and lots more.&nbsp;&nbsp; All of Assembly AI's models which are accessed&nbsp; through their API are production ready.

So many&nbsp;&nbsp; PMs I know are considering or already building&nbsp; with AI, and Assembly AI is the fastest way&nbsp;&nbsp; to build with AI for audio use cases. Now's the time to check out Assembly AI,&nbsp;&nbsp; which makes it easy to bring the highest&nbsp; accuracy transcription plus valuable insights&nbsp;&nbsp; to your customers, just like Spotify,&nbsp; CallRail and writer do for theirs. Visit&nbsp;&nbsp; assemblyai.com/lenny to try their API for free&nbsp; and start testing their models with their no-code&nbsp;&nbsp; playground. That's assemblyai.com/lenny. This episode is brought to you by Coda.&nbsp;&nbsp; You've heard me talk about how Coda is the doc&nbsp; that brings it altogether and how it can help&nbsp;&nbsp; your team run smoother and be more efficient. I&nbsp; know this firsthand because Coda does that for&nbsp;&nbsp; me. I use Coda every day to wrangle my newsletter&nbsp; content calendar, my interview notes for podcasts,&nbsp;&nbsp; and to coordinate my sponsors. More recently,&nbsp; I actually wrote a whole post on how Coda's&nbsp;&nbsp; product team operates, and within that post,&nbsp; they shared a dozen templates that they use&nbsp;&nbsp; internally to run their product team, including&nbsp; managing the roadmap, their OKR process, getting&nbsp;&nbsp; internal feedback, and essentially their whole&nbsp; product development process is done within Coda. If your team's work is spread out across different&nbsp; documents and spreadsheets and a stack of workflow&nbsp;&nbsp; tools, that's why you need Coda.

Coda puts data&nbsp; in one centralized location regardless of format,&nbsp;&nbsp; eliminating roadblocks that can slow your&nbsp; team down. Coda allows your team to operate&nbsp;&nbsp; on the same information and collaborate in one&nbsp; place. Take advantage of this special limited&nbsp;&nbsp; time offer just for startups. Sign up today at&nbsp; coda.io/lenny and get a thousand dollars starter&nbsp;&nbsp; credit on your first statement. That's&nbsp; C-O-D-A.io/lenny to sign up, and get a&nbsp;&nbsp; startup credit of $1,000, coda.io/lenny. Bill, thank you so much for being here and&nbsp;&nbsp; welcome to the podcast. Thanks, Lenny. Thanks so&nbsp;&nbsp; much for having me. Pleasure to be here. It's my pleasure. So, I was reading your book,&nbsp;&nbsp; and something that I recognized as I was going&nbsp; through this is just how many new ways of working&nbsp;&nbsp; Amazon contributed to the way tech and business&nbsp; runs. And I made this little list, and I'm curious&nbsp;&nbsp; if there's anything I'm forgetting that's obvious.&nbsp; So, obviously the idea of working backwards,&nbsp;&nbsp; the idea of one way and two way door decisions,&nbsp; the concept of disagreeing and committing input&nbsp;&nbsp; and output metrics using memos versus decks,&nbsp; just the idea of two pizza teams, and then I&nbsp;&nbsp; know that evolved into single-threaded leaders.&nbsp; Is there anything else that's just like an obvious&nbsp;&nbsp; core thing that's maybe almost too obvious that I&nbsp; don't even think about that Amazon contributed?

The one that's non-obvious and is really&nbsp; the way in which Amazon created a set of&nbsp;&nbsp; leadership principles that were very real,&nbsp; and the way in which Amazon created a set&nbsp;&nbsp; of processes to reinforce them. I think&nbsp; I certainly haven't encountered anything&nbsp;&nbsp; quite like that. It was very intentional.&nbsp; So, that is also a distinctive element of&nbsp;&nbsp; that we try to point out in our book. Awesome. Okay. So, maybe we will come back&nbsp;&nbsp; to that, because that is also really powerful&nbsp; mechanism. So, the question I wanted to ask&nbsp;&nbsp; about this is there are companies that are bigger&nbsp; than Amazon, that are more successful than Amazon,&nbsp;&nbsp; that have been around longer than Amazon, but I&nbsp; don't think any other company has contributed so&nbsp;&nbsp; many unique, new ways of working and also been&nbsp; able to coin them into such shareable ways. What&nbsp;&nbsp; would you say it is about Amazon that enables&nbsp; this sort of way of working and also just making&nbsp;&nbsp; things so just proliferate through the culture? That's actually one of the reasons why Colin and I&nbsp;&nbsp; set out to write our book because everyone knows&nbsp; about Amazon as a innovative product company,&nbsp;&nbsp; at least certainly during the time I was there,&nbsp; which was from 1999 through the end of 2014.&nbsp;&nbsp; The company rolled out all kinds of innovative&nbsp; products.

The Kindle, AWS, Alexa, Echo, the Prime&nbsp;&nbsp; subscription itself is innovative and... And it's all those things, by the way. Yes, a lot of people around the world&nbsp; use all those things. And obviously,&nbsp;&nbsp; Jeff was a huge driver of those things. But what&nbsp; people don't realize is that Amazon was actually,&nbsp;&nbsp; to some degree, equally focused on process&nbsp; innovation. In many cases, by the way,&nbsp;&nbsp; we stood on other people's shoulders, we cannot&nbsp; take credit for having... For most of these,&nbsp;&nbsp; there were other inspirations or we built on work&nbsp; that others had done, which by the way, was what&nbsp;&nbsp; I think all great companies should do. And again,&nbsp; that's also why we wrote the book was because we&nbsp;&nbsp; would like to allow people to stand on Amazon's&nbsp; shoulders to learn what we learned, and then take&nbsp;&nbsp; all or part of these things and build from there. But to more directly answer your question,&nbsp;&nbsp; how or why did this happen. So, this period&nbsp; of both product and process innovation&nbsp;&nbsp; actually occurred in this one narrow window&nbsp; of 2003 to 2007. During that window of time,&nbsp;&nbsp; all of the products I just mentioned and all of&nbsp; the processes except for one were all developed&nbsp;&nbsp; in this one four year period.

Wow. And this is the period actually where we were&nbsp; going from hypergrowth stage, zero to one company,&nbsp;&nbsp; to what I would call one to whatever, a thousand,&nbsp; infinity. That next step that companies have to&nbsp;&nbsp; make where what happens is things become very&nbsp; complex. We're no longer just a bookstore,&nbsp;&nbsp; we sell a lot of things. We actually&nbsp; branched out beyond just a retail business,&nbsp;&nbsp; we had a third party marketplace business. We were&nbsp; experimenting in those days with providing running&nbsp;&nbsp; websites for third party retailers in those days&nbsp; too. We were developing new things. We were in&nbsp;&nbsp; many countries around the world. So, we'd become&nbsp; very complex. And what happens to that point is&nbsp;&nbsp; that then you reach this point where the CEO can&nbsp; no longer be in every important meeting, can no&nbsp;&nbsp; longer be involved with hiring every person. And&nbsp; you need a system, a method to run the company&nbsp;&nbsp; effectively. And Jeff Bezos is fundamentally,&nbsp; he's a very scientific and analytical thinker. His undergraduate degree was in computer science,&nbsp; I'm pretty sure. Although I think he actually&nbsp;&nbsp; started off wanting to get a physics degree,&nbsp; he ended up moving over to computer science.&nbsp;&nbsp; He spent his early days at DE Shaw as a quant&nbsp; on Wall Street.

Very quantitative mind. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; he applied this... When he thought&nbsp; about this problem, he said, "Well,&nbsp;&nbsp; I need to be scientific about this. There needs&nbsp; to be some system or some approach, some mechanism&nbsp;&nbsp; for me to be able to manage such a company. So,&nbsp; I'm going to experiment, like a scientist would,&nbsp;&nbsp; with different ideas, different hypotheses,&nbsp; implement them and see what works, and iteratively&nbsp;&nbsp; improve." So that was the mindset which we took...&nbsp; Which by the way, we applied both to process&nbsp;&nbsp; innovation, but also product innovation. Awesome. I had Eric Reson, and he also&nbsp;&nbsp; happened... I thought about this at the same time,&nbsp; he contributed a lot of core concepts to the way&nbsp;&nbsp; tech worked, and he actually brought up a couple&nbsp; concepts that were on the cutting room floor,&nbsp;&nbsp; basically things that he thought would be&nbsp; things people adopt everywhere. And I'm curious,&nbsp;&nbsp; is there an example of that at Amazon where&nbsp; you built a process and had this clever term&nbsp;&nbsp; for it and just never spread or never actually&nbsp; worked at Amazon? Anything come to mind? The dev team, the design team, the product team,&nbsp; they're all in one group, and they'll go operate&nbsp;&nbsp; autonomously, but not completely autonomously&nbsp; because we, the senior leadership team, Jeff&nbsp;&nbsp; and the S-Team want to know that they're on the&nbsp; right track.

So, we're going to create something&nbsp;&nbsp; called a fitness function, which was let's figure&nbsp; out what are the four or five or six metrics that&nbsp;&nbsp; matter most for your particular area. Let's give&nbsp; a weighting to all of them and then let's create&nbsp;&nbsp; an index for those, and we'll measure that index&nbsp; up and down. And that's the fitness function. That is a very nerdy way of&nbsp; organizing teams. I love it. Yeah, super nerdy. But we realized after, I don't&nbsp; know how long, several months or a year of doing&nbsp;&nbsp; this, so the fitness function was not a good idea.&nbsp; This is what I would describe as a compound metric&nbsp;&nbsp; where you try to take several important metrics&nbsp; and munge them into one. The problem is it's&nbsp;&nbsp; actually becomes totally meaningless. When you're&nbsp; measuring things, you're trying to understand what&nbsp;&nbsp; actions or reactions are creating the good outputs&nbsp; that you want, revenue, customer growth. But by&nbsp;&nbsp; putting them all together, you basically obfuscate&nbsp; that. And what really we realized is we need to&nbsp;&nbsp; just break each one of these out individually&nbsp; and manage them each in its own way. So today,&nbsp;&nbsp; I discouraged teams and companies from&nbsp; creating any sort of compound metrics.

I've done that once, and it was a terrible&nbsp; idea as well, where we had six different&nbsp;&nbsp; metrics and every quarter, we were going to&nbsp; move a different metric that contributed to&nbsp;&nbsp; a higher metric. And what we realized is we&nbsp; just never learn how to get good at one thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then it turns out there's always one thing&nbsp; that actually impacts the bigger goal most. See,&nbsp;&nbsp; you just end up working on that thing anyway. Let's actually go deeper into the single threaded&nbsp;&nbsp; leader piece since you mentioned it. It's actually&nbsp; come up a lot on this podcast of people working&nbsp;&nbsp; this way where they have a single threaded&nbsp; leader. And so clearly, it's worked. And I&nbsp;&nbsp; guess we'll just help people understand what does&nbsp; a single threaded leader actually mean, and then&nbsp;&nbsp; why is it such an effective way of working. So, the concept of single-threaded leadership&nbsp;&nbsp; was first... When I was born from this time of&nbsp; complexity at Amazon, and where again, large...&nbsp;&nbsp; Once you get to a certain scale, you get to a&nbsp; point of where there are competing departments,&nbsp;&nbsp; competing interests, and they're competing for&nbsp; some centralized pool of resources. For all of&nbsp;&nbsp; you who are working for a tech company, this is&nbsp; this pool of engineering resources, or today,&nbsp;&nbsp; data science and AI resources.

There may be&nbsp; other constrained resources often designed&nbsp;&nbsp; as a constrained resource. But the point is now&nbsp; all these teams want that pool of resources to go&nbsp;&nbsp; build stuff for them, but they're in competition&nbsp; with each other. So, most companies solve this&nbsp;&nbsp; by having an intense, centralized, highly&nbsp; collaborative process. We decided to go in the&nbsp;&nbsp; other direction for the reasons I mentioned, which&nbsp; were that we're just fine, that we're spending all&nbsp;&nbsp; our time in these meetings, planning, and a lot of&nbsp; the work we were doing, the artifacts we create,&nbsp;&nbsp; the documents, the projections, we're actually&nbsp; not very useful either, we're bureaucratic&nbsp;&nbsp; time wasters largely because a lot of the&nbsp; assumptions built into them were deeply flawed. So, you're debating numbers in these documents&nbsp; that are based on flawed assumptions, which is&nbsp;&nbsp; a waste of time. So, what we realized instead&nbsp; was how do we get... The three things we really&nbsp;&nbsp; wanted were ownership, speed and agility.&nbsp; And so, we experimented with that and said,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Let's create teams that can stand alone, where&nbsp; there's a single leader and the cross- functional&nbsp;&nbsp; resources that they need are all either&nbsp; directly report to them or are dedicated&nbsp;&nbsp; to them." So they don't necessarily have to be&nbsp; a straight line direct report.

In Amazon's case,&nbsp;&nbsp; for the most part it was. There were some dotted&nbsp; line, but it could be all straight line, it could&nbsp;&nbsp; be all dotted line, it could be a mix of the two.&nbsp; But fundamentally, we've moved from what we called&nbsp;&nbsp; a project orientation to a program orientation. So, a project orientation means, oh, we are going&nbsp;&nbsp; to do this project to change our search result&nbsp; page and algorithm, and the project is defined&nbsp;&nbsp; in this way and it's going to take six months.&nbsp; The resources will come and swarm on that,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then they'll move off to some other thing in&nbsp; some other part of the company. The program based&nbsp;&nbsp; orientation says, let's stick with the search&nbsp; example. There's a team that works on search,&nbsp;&nbsp; and they always work on search. And instead of&nbsp; thinking about things on a project by project&nbsp;&nbsp; basis, they think holistically about what they&nbsp; need to do to improve search. They have a set of&nbsp;&nbsp; metrics by which they're looking to drive those&nbsp; metrics largely. Ones that they can control.&nbsp;&nbsp; Things like what percent of the time is a customer&nbsp; clicking on one of the top three results in my&nbsp;&nbsp; search page, or how many milliseconds does it&nbsp; take for the page load time in this browser type,&nbsp;&nbsp; on this device type, et cetera, et cetera.

And they then are running their own roadmap.&nbsp;&nbsp; They're deciding what are the most important&nbsp; things for us to go work on, and having a&nbsp;&nbsp; prioritized list of those things and be able&nbsp; to start at the top of the list and work their&nbsp;&nbsp; way down with the pool of resources that they&nbsp; have. Sometimes, and most times, they may want&nbsp;&nbsp; more resources to be able to tackle more, but they&nbsp; spend less time in resource contention, resource&nbsp;&nbsp; fighting, and instead, focus on building what they&nbsp; can build with the resources that they've got. And so, the benefit of this is if there&nbsp; are success or failures, they're really&nbsp;&nbsp; dependent on themselves now. The only thing&nbsp; they could maybe argue about how they could&nbsp;&nbsp; do better is if they had more resources, which&nbsp; they can petition management for. But this way,&nbsp;&nbsp; it also solves a big management problem, which&nbsp; is instead of management, senior management&nbsp;&nbsp; refereeing every item on a roadmap, they're&nbsp; refereeing which teams have how many resources,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is more of like a once or twice&nbsp; or three times a year decision versus&nbsp;&nbsp; refereeing everything on the product roadmap.&nbsp; And then all the resource contention issues,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's a daily issue.

And so, it frees teams up&nbsp; then to actually go and sprint ahead. There's a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of work you have to do to get ready for this.&nbsp; For example, in a software environment, when we&nbsp;&nbsp; first started and we had a monolithic code base&nbsp; that was not pretty, we weren't ready to do this&nbsp;&nbsp; because you have all those interdependencies. Once we moved to a service-based architecture,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then teams could own their code with defined&nbsp; endpoints, APIs that other teams could understand&nbsp;&nbsp; that are well-documented, then we could move&nbsp; in that direction. And the other thing is we&nbsp;&nbsp; had to create, what I would call, countermeasures&nbsp; because there's no free lunch in org structures,&nbsp;&nbsp; any org structure, you're trading off one&nbsp; thing for another thing. In this case,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're trading off potentially functional&nbsp; excellence. So, in other words, if you&nbsp;&nbsp; no longer have every single engineer or every&nbsp; single marketing person or every product person&nbsp;&nbsp; or every biz dev person reporting into a C-level&nbsp; leader of that particular function, and instead,&nbsp;&nbsp; they're spread out in small teams across the&nbsp; company reporting into some generalist who is&nbsp;&nbsp; probably not going to have functional expertise&nbsp; in several of the functions that they're leading,&nbsp;&nbsp; you risk the problem of then the people in&nbsp; those teams not gaining functional competency.&nbsp;&nbsp; That's the downside.

And we can talk more about&nbsp; this, but we created a lot of countermeasures to&nbsp;&nbsp; still enable us to have functional excellence&nbsp; while creating these single-threaded teams. To drill into this a little bit further, is the&nbsp; origin of this, this recognition at Amazon that&nbsp;&nbsp; the best stuff comes from one person's&nbsp; vision and just one person driving and&nbsp;&nbsp; one person's ask being on the line versus the&nbsp; often, the decision by committee approach? It is less about that. I do want to be clear,&nbsp; it's one leader and their team who are accountable&nbsp;&nbsp; and responsible. So, with respect to what are&nbsp; we going to go build, how are we going to go&nbsp;&nbsp; measure success, all those things, this team and&nbsp; that leader are responsible for documenting that,&nbsp;&nbsp; writing their plan. Now, they don't just get&nbsp; to go off and do that. There was an intense&nbsp;&nbsp; review process at Amazon where either at some&nbsp; level, whether it be the vice president, senior&nbsp;&nbsp; vice president, or all the way up to the Jeff&nbsp; level and his direct reports called the S-Team,&nbsp;&nbsp; this plan would be reviewed and scrutinized&nbsp; deeply as well, and there'd be a discussion,&nbsp;&nbsp; an interchange, and basically getting alignment&nbsp; between the senior leadership team and each&nbsp;&nbsp; one of these single-threaded teams on that&nbsp; plan before the team could go off and run.

The beauty of that though is that once we'd had&nbsp; those discussions, those interchanges, then the&nbsp;&nbsp; teams were free to sprint hard after their plan.&nbsp; They didn't have to worry about whether was,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Am I aligned with my CEO? Am I aligned with&nbsp; my senior vice president?" They could know that&nbsp;&nbsp; they were. But yes, this creates then clear...&nbsp; If they're going to deliver it or not. It's up&nbsp;&nbsp; to that owner and that team. Whereas when you&nbsp; have this highly cross-functional approach and&nbsp;&nbsp; there's not one clear person who's responsible for&nbsp; this one project that's on this roadmap, I've seen&nbsp;&nbsp; many CEO pull their hair out saying, "I have no&nbsp; ownership and accountability here. How do I have&nbsp;&nbsp; that?" They're pushing on a string. Because they&nbsp; can't because their different people and leaders&nbsp;&nbsp; are part owning, half owning a long list of things&nbsp; instead of fully owning a short list of things. I like that. I like metaphor of pushing on&nbsp; a string. Is this approach similar to just&nbsp;&nbsp; the GM model, or is there a big difference&nbsp; when someone's thinking about going GM model&nbsp;&nbsp; versus the single-threaded leader approach? Yeah. Obviously, there are probably different&nbsp;&nbsp; definitions of what people consider the GM model,&nbsp; but I would consider that being this person is a&nbsp;&nbsp; P&amp;L owner, and you can, of course, create mini&nbsp; P&amp;Ls within a P&amp;L.

Like for example, in the book&nbsp;&nbsp; business, we could, and I don't know most of the&nbsp; time we didn't do this, but we could have created&nbsp;&nbsp; a P&amp;L owner just for fiction books, or just for&nbsp; professional and technical books, which is a very&nbsp;&nbsp; large category with big differences between the&nbsp; others. And then you say, "Great." Then that team,&nbsp;&nbsp; they have their own dedicated team. They're&nbsp; fully responsible for the revenue numbers and&nbsp;&nbsp; other numbers. But you have to be thoughtful about&nbsp; how you do this because one of the three questions&nbsp;&nbsp; you have to ask when you establish one of these&nbsp; teams is, does the team have the resources within&nbsp;&nbsp; their control to effectively manage this part&nbsp; of this department, this product, this P&amp;L? And sometimes then if you narrow things down&nbsp; too much in some cases, then the answer is&nbsp;&nbsp; no. In other cases, the answer can be yes very&nbsp; easily. A great example, this was in Prime Video,&nbsp;&nbsp; one of the businesses that I managed, we&nbsp; could create a single-threaded team who&nbsp;&nbsp; just was working on applications for TV sets,&nbsp; like Samsung, Sony. We could create another team&nbsp;&nbsp; that's working on game consoles, and another team&nbsp; that's working on mobile phones and tablets.

And&nbsp;&nbsp; then within each one of those, we could further&nbsp; break it down. We could have one team working&nbsp;&nbsp; on Xbox and another one on PlayStation,&nbsp; another one just on iOS. In those cases,&nbsp;&nbsp; then it's very clear how you can break the teams&nbsp; down and they can have very clear ownership. Awesome. Let's go back to the countermeasures&nbsp; topic, and then even just a little more broadly.&nbsp;&nbsp; You talked about one thing that was important&nbsp; to put in place before you moved to the single&nbsp;&nbsp; threaded leader model, which is creating&nbsp; APIs, and basically breaking apart this&nbsp;&nbsp; monolith. What are some other things that you&nbsp; think you need to put in place to be successful&nbsp;&nbsp; in trying to shift to this model? The other thing was these functional&nbsp;&nbsp; countermeasures. So, let's stick with the&nbsp; engineering, for an example. So, in 2004,&nbsp;&nbsp; 2005-ish, I started managing a single-threaded&nbsp; team. Actually managed two different ones,&nbsp;&nbsp; one for music and one for video, which are now&nbsp; Amazon Music and Prime Video. They weren't called&nbsp;&nbsp; that in those days. But I started managing a small&nbsp; team of software engineers at that point. Well,&nbsp;&nbsp; I have never... Well, I have written lines of&nbsp; code, but that would be back in high school,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we're talking about Basic and Pascal.

I&nbsp; have a master's in business, a background in&nbsp;&nbsp; marketing. I'm a generalist, okay? So, I'm not&nbsp; equipped to coach. I couldn't possibly conduct&nbsp;&nbsp; a code review. I couldn't possibly conduct an&nbsp; architectural review. I couldn't possibly coach&nbsp;&nbsp; or mentor an engineer on how to improve their&nbsp; craft. But I was one of many of these examples. And there could be reverse examples where&nbsp; instead of me being a business leader,&nbsp;&nbsp; I was purely an engineer, and now I'm managing a&nbsp; team that does marketing and business development.&nbsp;&nbsp; I wouldn't know anything about those things if&nbsp; that had been my background. So, what we did,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I'll stick with the engineering examples,&nbsp; we came up with various countermeasures. One&nbsp;&nbsp; example was that we still had a C-level&nbsp; leader of engineering in Rick Dalzell,&nbsp;&nbsp; and most of the core infrastructure and core&nbsp; services still reported into Rick. So- Core services still reported in to Rick. So it&nbsp; was things like payments or infrastructure search,&nbsp;&nbsp; and Rick still could be a technical leader&nbsp; for the whole company and he and his team&nbsp;&nbsp; could create things like what are the standard&nbsp; ways that we're going to do code reviews? What&nbsp;&nbsp; are the standard ways across the company that&nbsp; we will interview and screen engineers?

What&nbsp;&nbsp; does the promotion process look like? What are&nbsp; the defined steps getting from an SD1 to an SD2,&nbsp;&nbsp; SD3? How do we document and describe what are the&nbsp; requirements? There are many things like this. Effectively, what it also meant is that&nbsp; anyone who is an engineering vice president,&nbsp;&nbsp; or in many cases a director, they would often have&nbsp; something else beyond their day job of some sort&nbsp;&nbsp; of subject matter expertise area where they would&nbsp; also contribute to the company. A good example of&nbsp;&nbsp; this would be that they might sit on a panel for&nbsp; promotion from a certain level to another level in&nbsp;&nbsp; the engineering world, or they might be available&nbsp; to do code review outside of their organization&nbsp;&nbsp; for another organization. So people had other&nbsp; jobs in addition to their day job to build and&nbsp;&nbsp; maintain functional excellence. There are a lot&nbsp; of examples like this across the company. Let's go in a different direction and talk&nbsp; about one of my favorite principles of Amazon,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is disagree and commit. I think in the&nbsp; way I even describe it I know is wrong. I think&nbsp;&nbsp; people hear this term and they often use this&nbsp; principle incorrectly.

For example, it actually&nbsp;&nbsp; starts with have backbone and then disagree and&nbsp; commit. So I'd love to just hear how you've seen&nbsp;&nbsp; this actually implemented well and what people&nbsp; should do and think about when they're trying to&nbsp;&nbsp; implement something like this at their company. So when I was at Amazon, there were 10 leadership&nbsp;&nbsp; principles and they've since expanded them.&nbsp; But of those 10, this was always the least&nbsp;&nbsp; well understood when I was at Amazon too, and&nbsp; partly because it is actually the most nuanced&nbsp;&nbsp; and difficult to actually use. So here's what&nbsp; it means. What it means is that have backbone&nbsp;&nbsp; and disagree, meaning when we are making any&nbsp; kind of a decision, important decision, if you&nbsp;&nbsp; are part of that team, part of that unit, it is&nbsp; your obligation to voice your point of view if&nbsp;&nbsp; you disagree with your approach that's been taken.&nbsp; The point of that disagreement, by the way, is to&nbsp;&nbsp; provide usually additional information or a new&nbsp; point of view that people have not considered. So I like to geek out a bit on the process of&nbsp; decision-making and have read more and more&nbsp;&nbsp; about this. I think that Peter Drucker probably&nbsp; has the best writing on this topic.

But as he&nbsp;&nbsp; would describe it, good decisions are made by&nbsp; first understanding all the different points&nbsp;&nbsp; of view and pros and cons to the potential&nbsp; issue at hand or the potential direction,&nbsp;&nbsp; and that great leaders, what they do is they&nbsp; solicit these different points of views. They have&nbsp;&nbsp; a team that they work with to debate and discuss&nbsp; things. So another way to think about this,&nbsp;&nbsp; a king and their court. In an ideal world, if&nbsp; you assume that there's no political motivations,&nbsp;&nbsp; the court is there to advise the king and&nbsp; help them think through different problems and&nbsp;&nbsp; provide different and opposing points of view to&nbsp; allow the king to arrive at the right decision. This is sort of no different than that which is&nbsp; the disagree part is about bringing forth new&nbsp;&nbsp; information, new data, new point of view that&nbsp; would be contrary to the current direction. So&nbsp;&nbsp; that's the disagree part and you're obligated&nbsp; to do it as we would describe sort of all the&nbsp;&nbsp; way up the chain if necessary, if it's an&nbsp; important issue and people are not hearing&nbsp;&nbsp; or understanding your point of view. Now&nbsp; the important point is first of all about&nbsp;&nbsp; hearing and understanding your point of view.

What would often happen, I can tell you if someone&nbsp;&nbsp; in a leadership role, someone come to me with a&nbsp; disagreement and many times I'd appreciate it,&nbsp;&nbsp; by the, way because they'd bring some point of&nbsp; view that was useful, but sometimes they bring&nbsp;&nbsp; the disagreement and cite the reasoning behind it&nbsp; and I already knew that reasoning. We'd already&nbsp;&nbsp; thought of that reasoning, we already thought&nbsp; of that, in which case I would say, "I hear your&nbsp;&nbsp; disagreement. We have already considered that&nbsp; factor. But even though that factor is there,&nbsp;&nbsp; here are these other factors that outweigh that." Now that is the point at which as long as the&nbsp;&nbsp; disagreer is hearing back from the leader&nbsp; that they understand their point of view,&nbsp;&nbsp; understand why they are pushing back and seem&nbsp; to fully understand it, and they've taken that&nbsp;&nbsp; into consideration, that is the point for&nbsp; them to commit. Because the point is you&nbsp;&nbsp; provided your information, they've processed&nbsp; that information and they've decided to go&nbsp;&nbsp; this way with the knowledge of that. Where people&nbsp; get confused about is they don't maybe understand&nbsp;&nbsp; when they're supposed to stop disagreeing is&nbsp; one thing, and so hopefully that explanation&nbsp;&nbsp; made people clear this is when you're supposed&nbsp; to stop, and then the commit part done well&nbsp;&nbsp; means that it's not just like I'm going to&nbsp; commit, I don't really agree with what we're&nbsp;&nbsp; going to do, but I'm going to get behind this.

Ideally it's, oh, now I've heard the argument,&nbsp;&nbsp; I've actually now thought about the argument and&nbsp; hopefully that person has now understood why we're&nbsp;&nbsp; taking that direction. So their commitment is&nbsp; based on that understanding because then they&nbsp;&nbsp; can reflect that understanding back to their&nbsp; organization too. Because the worst thing to&nbsp;&nbsp; do is to say, "Yeah, we're committed to this. I&nbsp; don't really agree and I still think it's wrong,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I'm committed to it." That's not actually&nbsp; commitment. This is really about decision-making&nbsp;&nbsp; and understanding the facts and information&nbsp; that people are going to use to make a&nbsp;&nbsp; decision and then be able reflect that back. I imagine there are many times I've gone through&nbsp;&nbsp; this where I still don't agree. What's your&nbsp; advice to a manager or to a report of just like,&nbsp;&nbsp; okay, when you actually still don't agree,&nbsp; how do you behave? Do you just behave like,&nbsp;&nbsp; yes, I agree with this and don't really&nbsp; voice your concerns or something else? I work with Jeff on all kinds of different new&nbsp; ideas. Jeff doesn't think a normal person. His&nbsp;&nbsp; level of sort of creativity and the way he&nbsp; thinks, the timescale of which he thinks,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's many ways about the way he thinks that&nbsp; there was no one else in Amazon that thought that&nbsp;&nbsp; way.

So there'd be times when even after we've&nbsp; had that discussion, I would maybe still disagree,&nbsp;&nbsp; but then what I would do is I'd focus on, okay,&nbsp; well what is the kernel or the core of why Jeff&nbsp;&nbsp; thinks that we should do this and I would focus&nbsp; on that kernel. I got great advice actually from&nbsp;&nbsp; one of my managers at one point, Steve Kessel&nbsp; who said, "You have to look for what that is,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then your job is to then take that kernel&nbsp; and try to run with it and expand it and try to&nbsp;&nbsp; see how I can take that idea, that concept,&nbsp; and then make it into something viable." It doesn't always work, but it's about then having&nbsp; that understanding of what it is, not just sort of&nbsp;&nbsp; going through the motion of stomp, stomp, stomp&nbsp; through it. That's not going to work. Also,&nbsp;&nbsp; I've seen people who try that and their career&nbsp; doesn't go very far. You have to have some degree&nbsp;&nbsp; of faith that there's something there and I'm&nbsp; going to try to do the best I can to make that&nbsp;&nbsp; part. How would I productize that idea? How would&nbsp; I make that viable from a business point of view&nbsp;&nbsp; or whatever the different constraints are.

Awesome. So the advice there is focus on the&nbsp;&nbsp; parts you agree with and think about how you&nbsp; can find out if it's actually right or not. Agree with, or even just you may not even&nbsp; agree, but what is the core of what that&nbsp;&nbsp; person is thinking is the big benefit or good&nbsp; guy or thinking vector that they're on that's&nbsp;&nbsp; causing them to want to go in this direction. Thinking vector, love that term. Along the same&nbsp;&nbsp; lines, another principle that I love is leaders&nbsp; are right a lot. I feel like this is a term&nbsp;&nbsp; that it almost goes unsaid. You almost can say&nbsp; this in a lot of companies. I'm curious just the&nbsp;&nbsp; origin of why that became an important principle&nbsp; and then how it's implemented at Amazon. Yeah. So going back to this last discussion, so&nbsp; one fallacy we should all acknowledge is that when&nbsp;&nbsp; you're making these decisions, and you're trying&nbsp; to use data to make decisions, you can make the&nbsp;&nbsp; data kind of look however you want it to look to&nbsp; sort of try to meet your decision. If I'm looking&nbsp;&nbsp; at some issue and I've got some big dataset, I&nbsp; can come up with ways of looking at a dataset to&nbsp;&nbsp; support this idea and ways of looking at that&nbsp; dataset to not support it.

So the data rarely&nbsp;&nbsp; makes the decision for you. What is happening is&nbsp; then a lot of judgment and interpretation of the&nbsp;&nbsp; data, weighing that, weighing various&nbsp; factors to then come to a decision. That is sort of the right a lot part. The&nbsp; right a lot part comes from having what we&nbsp;&nbsp; call sort of sound judgment, which generally&nbsp; come... Some people maybe are born with this,&nbsp;&nbsp; not a lot of them, mostly they get it through&nbsp; experience. A lot of experiences actually about&nbsp;&nbsp; being wrong, by the way, about making mistakes&nbsp; and by having looked at a lot of problems,&nbsp;&nbsp; made decisions or observed others making&nbsp; decisions, being a student of that, and&nbsp;&nbsp; then using that to understand then how to weight&nbsp; different information when making a decision. So right a lot is that you're good at that and&nbsp; that then it proves, and that generally speaking,&nbsp;&nbsp; people want to follow someone who ends up by and&nbsp; large going in the right direction, right? You're&nbsp;&nbsp; the leader of a team. The team is petitioning you&nbsp; on multiple sides. If you keep kind of going off&nbsp;&nbsp; in some direction where most of the team is&nbsp; scratching their head saying, "I don't think&nbsp;&nbsp; that that was the right decision," they're not&nbsp; going to want to follow you very far and you're&nbsp;&nbsp; probably not going to go very far.

So this is&nbsp; something that you develop through experience and&nbsp;&nbsp; I'd say from having the opportunities to observe&nbsp; and work for others that are good at this. I love that it's a lot. I like that it's not&nbsp; just leaders are right. It's right a lot. Yeah, yeah. No one is right every time.&nbsp; That is totally unrealistic. Yeah. Let's talk about the titular concept of your&nbsp; book, and that's a word I've never used,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I think it's appropriate, which&nbsp; is working backwards. First of all,&nbsp;&nbsp; just what does it actually mean to work&nbsp; backwards versus working forwards? The title of the book comes from two things. One&nbsp; is one of the leadership principles, which is&nbsp;&nbsp; that customer obsession, and the principle states&nbsp; something along the lines of that great leaders&nbsp;&nbsp; start with the customer's needs and work backwards&nbsp; from there to sort of meet those needs or solve&nbsp;&nbsp; them. Then also because we created a process&nbsp; in this window I was talking about earlier,&nbsp;&nbsp; the 2004 to 2007 window, we created this process&nbsp; for new product innovation called the Working&nbsp;&nbsp; Backwards PR/FAQ process. They both refer to the&nbsp; same idea, which is that as your guiding star or&nbsp;&nbsp; the point from which you're going to start&nbsp; is what are the customer's problems or what&nbsp;&nbsp; are the customer's needs, and then figure out,&nbsp; okay, well what would be the solution to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; what are potential solutions to that?

To do those things, starting with without&nbsp;&nbsp; the constraints of my financial constraints,&nbsp; my resource constraints, my legal constraints,&nbsp;&nbsp; my engineering constraints, whatever all&nbsp; those constraints may be, because the&nbsp;&nbsp; problem is what most of us do is we start with&nbsp; those constraints and work forward from there,&nbsp;&nbsp; or we start with things like I got to increase&nbsp; revenue. How do I increase revenue? I need&nbsp;&nbsp; to increase active customers. How do I increase&nbsp; active customers? For customer oriented behavior,&nbsp;&nbsp; we tend to start with those things which&nbsp; may often lead you in the wrong direction. Whereas we had, as Jeff would say, we took it as&nbsp; an article of faith. If we served customers well,&nbsp;&nbsp; them, we took it as an article of faith that&nbsp;&nbsp; then things like sales, things like revenue and&nbsp; active customers and things like the share price&nbsp;&nbsp; and free cash flow would follow. So this&nbsp; is important because I still can't give&nbsp;&nbsp; you objective proof that that is true, I don't&nbsp; know who could, and so it was saying this is&nbsp;&nbsp; an article of faith that if we do that we&nbsp; think those other things will work out. So therefore, when we're making a&nbsp; decision thinking about a problem,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're going to start with what's best for the&nbsp; customer and then come backward from there.&nbsp;&nbsp; Then in that coming backward process, we're going&nbsp; to have to figure out, well, to do that, gee, I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; going to have to solve this engineering problem,&nbsp; or I'm going to have to figure out how to make&nbsp;&nbsp; this thing cost less or make this thing faster or&nbsp; solve one or more problems.

That's the backwards,&nbsp;&nbsp; that informs what's the work you have to do to&nbsp; then create this new solution for customers. Awesome. So just to summarize, you start with&nbsp; what are the customer's needs and problems,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I think a big part of Amazon's approach is&nbsp; what are the lasting problems they'll always have,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is I think it's lower prices, faster&nbsp; shipping and all those things, and then think&nbsp;&nbsp; with no constraints. When you work with companies&nbsp; to implement this idea of working backwards,&nbsp;&nbsp; is it always what is the customer problem and&nbsp; need versus revenue or growth or something like&nbsp;&nbsp; that? Or is there other examples of where you work&nbsp; backwards from at different sorts of companies? Well, the working backwards part is&nbsp; strictly about the customer's needs. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; we don't want to work backwards from revenue. I&nbsp; guess we didn't really use this term for sort of&nbsp;&nbsp; other things like cost structure. Cost structure&nbsp; was actually a part of working backwards from the&nbsp;&nbsp; customer that if we had a low cost structure,&nbsp; we could afford to give customers lower prices,&nbsp;&nbsp; therefore let's figure out how to have a low cost&nbsp; structure. Because in itself, driving down costs,&nbsp;&nbsp; doing things more efficiently doesn't inherently&nbsp; benefit customers because you could just choose&nbsp;&nbsp; to take more profit.

It only does if you decide&nbsp; that in doing so I'm going to lower my prices&nbsp;&nbsp; to customers or provide some other benefit. So no,&nbsp; we used it in this method of I'm starting from the&nbsp;&nbsp; customer, and then very specifically, we used it&nbsp; in this method of new products and features that&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm going to go build on behalf of customers. Awesome. This episode is brought to you by Wix&nbsp;&nbsp; Studio. Your agency has just landed a dream client&nbsp; and you already have big ideas for the website,&nbsp;&nbsp; but do you have the tools to bring your ambitious&nbsp; vision to life? Let me tell you about Wix Studio,&nbsp;&nbsp; the new platform that lets agencies&nbsp; deliver exceptional client sites with&nbsp;&nbsp; maximum efficiency. How? First, let's talk about&nbsp; advanced design capabilities. With Wix Studio,&nbsp;&nbsp; you can build unique layouts with&nbsp; a revolutionary grid experience and&nbsp;&nbsp; watch as elements scale proportionally by default.&nbsp; No-code animations add sparks of delight while&nbsp;&nbsp; adding custom CSS gives total design control. Bring ambitious client projects to life with&nbsp;&nbsp; any industry with a fully integrated suite of&nbsp; business solutions from eCommerce to events&nbsp;&nbsp; bookings and more, and extend the capabilities&nbsp; even further with hundreds of APIs and&nbsp;&nbsp; integrations.

You know what else? The workflows&nbsp; just make sense. There's the built-in AI tools,&nbsp;&nbsp; the on canvass collaborating, a centralized&nbsp; workspace, the reuse of assets across sites,&nbsp;&nbsp; the seamless client handover, and that's not all.&nbsp; Find out more at wix.com/studio. Okay. So then&nbsp;&nbsp; when you go work with a company to implement&nbsp; this idea of working backwards, what are the&nbsp;&nbsp; very tactical things that you do to help them&nbsp; here? I know PR/FAQ is a part of that, so let's&nbsp;&nbsp; chat about how to actually implement that. What&nbsp; are the steps to shift to working backwards? Yeah. So the first shift is to take this, so&nbsp; that's just a concept, right? Working backwards.&nbsp;&nbsp; Well, how do I turn that concept into a scalable,&nbsp; repeatable process? That's exactly where Jeff's&nbsp;&nbsp; mind went. Eventually, without getting into the&nbsp; origin story, we came up with this process called&nbsp;&nbsp; the PR/FAQ process. So what it means is that&nbsp; whenever we're devising a new product or feature,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're going to start by writing a press release&nbsp; describing the feature and describing it in a way&nbsp;&nbsp; that speaks to the customer and to some degree&nbsp; the external press and world where the idea is,&nbsp;&nbsp; in my description of this, it better&nbsp; jump off the page of something like, wow,&nbsp;&nbsp; as a customer I will really need this.

So what I work first is to say, okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; for your product development process, let's start&nbsp; by using this method as the method to decide what&nbsp;&nbsp; am I going to go build? And oh, by the way,&nbsp; to use it as a method to sort between a lot&nbsp;&nbsp; of different choices of what you might build. In&nbsp; summary, the way that process works is that PR,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're going to describe very carefully and&nbsp; clearly who's the customer, what's their problem,&nbsp;&nbsp; and what's the solution that you're planning&nbsp; to build. That sounds really simple and easy,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it's actually very hard to do that well.&nbsp; to crisply and clearly define those. The first&nbsp;&nbsp; two things are the things that are hardest to&nbsp; define, like who's the customer? Like anyone&nbsp;&nbsp; says, "All restaurants are my customer." Okay, well, that's a mistake. Now, I mean,&nbsp;&nbsp; which kinds of restaurants are your customers? In&nbsp; what kinds of cities? In what kinds of formats,&nbsp;&nbsp; et cetera, et cetera? Then what is the specific&nbsp; problem you were solving? Ideally, you would some&nbsp;&nbsp; way have quantify that problem or there's some&nbsp; data or customer insights that have led you to&nbsp;&nbsp; understand that problem, to know that it is a&nbsp; meaningful and big problem.

Ideally a problem&nbsp;&nbsp; that people would pay money if you could solve&nbsp; that problem for, because you can just look at the&nbsp;&nbsp; economics of that problem, and if instead they use&nbsp; your solution, this would be beneficial to them. So I work to have them first implement this&nbsp; PR/FAQ process is the first step. Then the&nbsp;&nbsp; next step really is to go from there to say,&nbsp; "Okay, writing PR/FAQs is one thing. Well,&nbsp;&nbsp; how do I actually use them? How do we actually&nbsp; develop them?" Because there's this iterative&nbsp;&nbsp; nature to writing PR/FAQs where it's sort of a&nbsp; concentric circle review. You start off small&nbsp;&nbsp; with one author and with low fidelity writing&nbsp; these things, and then you start to share them&nbsp;&nbsp; with a small group and get feedback and improve&nbsp; it, a wider group, get feedback and improve it,&nbsp;&nbsp; and onward and onward until, depending on the size&nbsp; and scale of your company, you get up to the CEO&nbsp;&nbsp; as a way to strengthen, improve and really codify&nbsp; this idea and determine whether it's a great idea&nbsp;&nbsp; or not. So I help them understand how does that&nbsp; work? How do you do this iterative process? Then&nbsp;&nbsp; once you've done that, then what do I do with&nbsp; these PR/FAQs once I've got them?

How do I then&nbsp;&nbsp; think about that with respect to my roadmap? Awesome. Okay. That was an awesome overview. I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; going to fire off a couple of questions around the&nbsp; first part. Do you still suggest people do it as a&nbsp;&nbsp; press release? It feels like press releases aren't&nbsp; a thing anymore. Do you ever suggest people do it&nbsp;&nbsp; as a tweet or as TikTok video or a blog post? Good question. So the first thing is it's not&nbsp;&nbsp; a real press release, okay? We could change the&nbsp; nature of it, and if instead we wanted to call it&nbsp;&nbsp; the customer problem solution statement, right? We&nbsp; could just change it to that because there really&nbsp;&nbsp; are three money paragraphs in this. First of all.&nbsp; Yeah, it's not meant to be a real press release,&nbsp;&nbsp; so don't use the language you would use if&nbsp; you were sending an actual press release.&nbsp;&nbsp; This is like an internal document.&nbsp; Okay. So that's the first thing. The second thing is the heart of it really is&nbsp; that first paragraph, it's a short description,&nbsp;&nbsp; that second paragraph, that's the problem&nbsp; statement, and that third paragraph, that's&nbsp;&nbsp; solution statement. If you wanted to ditch the&nbsp; rest of it and the artifacts of the press release,&nbsp;&nbsp; you could.

I think there are other benefits to&nbsp; it, like the headline, is this headline long&nbsp;&nbsp; and drawn out and I can't even tell what the heck&nbsp; this thing is from reading this headline? If you&nbsp;&nbsp; used a tweet that wouldn't work very well. The date is also a meaningful thing when you&nbsp;&nbsp; write the press release. The date is meant to be&nbsp; a hypothetical timing on which you're envisioning&nbsp;&nbsp; launching this thing which tells the reader&nbsp; something. Are you thinking that this is something&nbsp;&nbsp; that's so simple and easy, we're going to launch&nbsp; it next month or so complex that we're going to&nbsp;&nbsp; launch it in a year from now. So there are some&nbsp; other directional cues within it. Like I said,&nbsp;&nbsp; with everything, these are tools that people&nbsp; can use and I'm sure that companies will find&nbsp;&nbsp; other ways to improve upon these tools, but if&nbsp; you don't use those parts of them correctly,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're kind of missing out on what's the main&nbsp; benefit that your getting out of this. Do you try to write it in a way that would be&nbsp; announced, like a press release feel? Or is it&nbsp;&nbsp; mostly just who is the customer? Do you try&nbsp; to pitch it as a part of this experience?

So you try to write it in that way, but the one&nbsp; thing is you don't want to use hyperbole. It&nbsp;&nbsp; would be very factual with numbers, data rich&nbsp; document too. So again, not like a real press&nbsp;&nbsp; release. A lot of internal confidential&nbsp; data would be in this press release. Got it. So it's a&nbsp;&nbsp; tool that has a very specific use to it. Is there a template that we can point people to&nbsp;&nbsp; in the show notes to help them craft this? I think&nbsp; there's a version in your book maybe, but is there&nbsp;&nbsp; some online that we could point people to? Yeah, so we have a website related to the book,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is www.workingbackwards.com,&nbsp; and there's a resources section&nbsp;&nbsp; within there and you'll find a template. Amazing. Okay. Then the concentric circle&nbsp;&nbsp; piece. So the idea there is basically&nbsp; get feedback from an increasingly&nbsp;&nbsp; larger swath of the company and it sounds like a&nbsp; big part of that is also get buy-in as you go- ... swath of the company. And it&nbsp; sounds like a big part of that is&nbsp;&nbsp; also get buy-in as you go along the way. Yes and no. So first of all, there are some&nbsp;&nbsp; things where you may write it and you, the author,&nbsp; if we were in the old world, would take the piece&nbsp;&nbsp; of paper, crumple up and throw in the trash can,&nbsp; which is, in your own, you've realized, "Now that&nbsp;&nbsp; I put this down on paper and read it, this is not&nbsp; actually that good of an idea.

I'm going to try&nbsp;&nbsp; something else." By the same token, you may then&nbsp; have written one you think is a pretty good idea,&nbsp;&nbsp; and you show up here or your manager and they&nbsp; give you feedback that makes you want to then&nbsp;&nbsp; ball it up and throw it into the trash can. So part of this concentric circle thing is not&nbsp;&nbsp; just that everyone you write lives on and gets all&nbsp; the way to the CEO. There are no stats in this,&nbsp;&nbsp; but let's just say in some imaginary world&nbsp; where, yes, all these things... You're a&nbsp;&nbsp; product manager and you've got a director of&nbsp; product management you report to who reports&nbsp;&nbsp; to some senior vice president of division who&nbsp; reports to a CEO. Well, if you truly run this&nbsp;&nbsp; out and you write 100 PRFAQs in a year, maybe 20&nbsp; of those make it their way to the CEO. The point&nbsp;&nbsp; is not every single one of them is destined&nbsp; to go that far. The numbers get narrower. And&nbsp;&nbsp; this leads me down to the concept of what you're&nbsp; really trying to create is a product funnel, not&nbsp;&nbsp; a product tunnel. And with a funnel, meaning lots&nbsp; of things at the top, fewer things at the bottom.&nbsp;&nbsp; The tunnel means that everything that comes&nbsp; in is also going to come out the other side.

And the problem with that method is that it&nbsp; means you're not actually having a method&nbsp;&nbsp; of consideration and comparing it against other&nbsp; things that you might build or how you deploy what&nbsp;&nbsp; are, frankly, most companies, your most precious&nbsp; resources, which is your engineering team,&nbsp;&nbsp; you should be looking at various choices.&nbsp; You should think of yourself honestly as a&nbsp;&nbsp; venture capitalist. They don't fund every company&nbsp; that they meet with. They actually fund a very,&nbsp;&nbsp; very low percentage of them. And at Amazon, we had&nbsp; lots and lots of PRFAQs that were a great idea,&nbsp;&nbsp; but we didn't ship them because we had&nbsp; other ones that were just a better idea,&nbsp;&nbsp; which had a bigger potential impact. So you want&nbsp; that. You want to create this corpus of ideas that&nbsp;&nbsp; are well-thought-out and select the best ones. It feels like a lot of these processes are&nbsp;&nbsp; basically just ways to stop stupid shit from&nbsp; happening. I think the narrative is a good&nbsp;&nbsp; example where you have to expose your thinking&nbsp; deeply. This is a great example of that. Yeah. And it's also, I would say, an example&nbsp; of where this is a process to prevent the&nbsp;&nbsp; other process, which is the product development&nbsp; process, from becoming the thing where you just&nbsp;&nbsp; get locked in on, "What are we doing in this&nbsp; sprint, what are we trying to get done," and&nbsp;&nbsp; focused on shipping stuff.

What I recommend is you&nbsp; try to break that into two different processes.&nbsp;&nbsp; One is the process of deciding what you should&nbsp; go build, and that's what the PRFAQ is designed&nbsp;&nbsp; for. And then once you've decided that, then,&nbsp; yes, by all means, use all that good thinking,&nbsp;&nbsp; freight, "Now how can I ship it efficiently&nbsp; and effectively with few to no bugs?" I was just reading this Harvard Business Review&nbsp; article, I think that's called the thinking to&nbsp;&nbsp; doing gap, where a lot of companies just spend a&nbsp; lot of time talking about ideas and solutions and&nbsp;&nbsp; not actually doing anything. And so I'm curious&nbsp; how you try to avoid that at Amazon considering&nbsp;&nbsp; there's this period of just like, "Let's&nbsp; explore, explore, explore, and we're fine." There's a couple ways, and of course I'm&nbsp; somewhat having to imagine what are the&nbsp;&nbsp; problems in such companies where that's going on.&nbsp; So one such version of this problem is what I'd&nbsp;&nbsp; call the-big-idea-that's-not-fleshed-out problem.&nbsp; So I'm sure that every single person listening to&nbsp;&nbsp; this podcast has either themselves done this&nbsp; or have witnessed others in their company who&nbsp;&nbsp; come up with a concept of like, "Oh, I think if we&nbsp; built this, boy, that would really solve things or&nbsp;&nbsp; that would really work well or that would really&nbsp; grow things." And it may sound good to everyone,&nbsp;&nbsp; it may sound good to you, to everyone, and then&nbsp; maybe you start then working on building it.

But&nbsp;&nbsp; the reality is that actually once you've spent&nbsp; some time looking at that idea more deeply, you&nbsp;&nbsp; then start to identify several roadblocks or maybe&nbsp; a fatal flaw with this idea. And in fact, no,&nbsp;&nbsp; you shouldn't waste any of your time going into&nbsp; building that thing because it has a fatal flaw. So one problem is that companies get stuck,&nbsp; I think, where they never actually go do that&nbsp;&nbsp; documentation. And so it's a debate and discussion&nbsp; about concepts that aren't really well fleshed&nbsp;&nbsp; out. And so people's ability to actually evaluate&nbsp; them in any realistic way is they don't have a&nbsp;&nbsp; good way. And so in those situations, what gets&nbsp; done is probably more of a function of politics&nbsp;&nbsp; or will or a culture of completely top-down. I&nbsp; think the other way is where they're debating&nbsp;&nbsp; and discussing things that they just don't have&nbsp; good methods where then they can take things,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then go build them, meaning they probably&nbsp; don't have the right org structure or processes&nbsp;&nbsp; in place to then go take the good idea,&nbsp; assign it to someone who will own it,&nbsp;&nbsp; go look at it. And after they have owned it&nbsp; and gone and look at it, if it works, then&nbsp;&nbsp; they and their team can go actually build it.

What I always found as I became more senior in&nbsp;&nbsp; the company and my role became bigger and&nbsp; bigger is that when something came up,&nbsp;&nbsp; some idea that didn't neatly fit within my org&nbsp; structure, I couldn't necessarily delegate it to&nbsp;&nbsp; someone that this... There were only two things&nbsp; I could possibly do, which is just set it aside&nbsp;&nbsp; altogether because otherwise it'd just be a&nbsp; real distraction to people or I had to decide&nbsp;&nbsp; this was a compelling enough idea that we were&nbsp; going to take a resource, could be one person,&nbsp;&nbsp; could be a whole team, depending on the idea,&nbsp; and I'm going to have to assign that resource&nbsp;&nbsp; to actually go look at this and work at&nbsp; this. Otherwise, it will never happen. I've been through those many times. Okay. So&nbsp; there's two more concepts I want to try to touch&nbsp;&nbsp; on before we wrap up. The next one is the idea&nbsp; of input and output metrics. This is something&nbsp;&nbsp; that at Airbnb, we super implemented, it became&nbsp; a very defective way of thinking. And actually&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a lot of Amazonians that ended up at&nbsp; Airbnb, a lot of leadership. So there's a lot&nbsp;&nbsp; of this stuff that we ended up doing like the&nbsp; memos.

And so on the input and output metrics,&nbsp;&nbsp; could you just describe what that is and&nbsp; why that's so important, why people think&nbsp;&nbsp; about metrics in the wrong way often? Yeah, so the origin of this one really was,&nbsp;&nbsp; again, in our early years at Amazon, '99, 2000,&nbsp; 2001, we were a public company then, we were&nbsp;&nbsp; growing. But then growth started to... It wasn't&nbsp; just all up into the right and like, "Woo-hoo."&nbsp;&nbsp; Every company's going to hit a wall eventually,&nbsp; and it's not going to be... If you're so lucky&nbsp;&nbsp; to even been at a company where it's just going&nbsp; up into the right with no gravity, good for you,&nbsp;&nbsp; because million people never experienced that. What most people experience is the reality&nbsp;&nbsp; is that there's a lot of gravity pulling against&nbsp; your revenue numbers and you've put a plan out&nbsp;&nbsp; there and you wanted to grow 15% or 20% or 75%&nbsp; or whatever it was, and now you look like you're&nbsp;&nbsp; not going to hit that number this quarter. And&nbsp; so what ensues then is, "We're not going to hit&nbsp;&nbsp; our number. What should we do about that to hit&nbsp; our number?" And this often happens with, well,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a month or a month and a half left in&nbsp; the quarter, and then we would run around like&nbsp;&nbsp; chickens with our heads cut off and come up with&nbsp; a bunch of ideas that tended to be promotional&nbsp;&nbsp; in nature and tended to be price reduction in&nbsp; nature, or we'll send this extra email or extra&nbsp;&nbsp; ad or whatever it might be- Another Prime Day.

Right. And the reality is we did that, we went&nbsp; through that enough times, several quarters,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we started to realize, "Huh, these fire&nbsp; drills don't really work." We didn't really get&nbsp;&nbsp; meaningful progress against the number with these&nbsp; last-minute things we decided to go do. And oh,&nbsp;&nbsp; by the way, they were a big distraction. If they&nbsp; did work at all, they pulled revenue that might've&nbsp;&nbsp; just gotten in the next month or next quarter&nbsp; into this one. So it wasn't really a zero-sum game&nbsp;&nbsp; there. And we realized we're not really actually&nbsp; working on things that matter to customers that&nbsp;&nbsp; are going to move the needle over the long term. And this is about the same time when Jeff and the&nbsp;&nbsp; S-Team were reading the book, Good to Great.&nbsp; And you have to ask Jeff what it is, but if&nbsp;&nbsp; you ask me, I think that this was the single most&nbsp; influential and effective management book for our&nbsp;&nbsp; company because what it caused Jeff to do, and I&nbsp; won't describe what... Most of you probably know&nbsp;&nbsp; what it is, if you don't know what it is, go read&nbsp; Good to Great. It is, in my opinion, the best,&nbsp;&nbsp; most important management book you'll ever read.&nbsp; Because what it did is to help us codify our&nbsp;&nbsp; growth flywheel, meaning what are the inputs that&nbsp; if we improve these things, which in our case,&nbsp;&nbsp; was how do we have broad selection?

How do&nbsp; we have a great customer experience or great&nbsp;&nbsp; customers experiences in retail? Things like&nbsp; how easy was it to find what you wanted to buy,&nbsp;&nbsp; how easy was it to buy it, and how fast&nbsp; did it get to you. Were the prices low? Do&nbsp;&nbsp; we have lots of merchants on our platform?&nbsp; And by the way, could we drive out costs? So we identified these things on our flywheel.&nbsp; And this identification of these things was such&nbsp;&nbsp; a critical moment for the company because then&nbsp; it realized, "Okay. Well, what we need to do is&nbsp;&nbsp; spend our time focusing on how do I measure each&nbsp; one of those things, and then how do I improve&nbsp;&nbsp; each one of those things?" So it shifted our focus&nbsp; away from this short-term thinking of pushing the&nbsp;&nbsp; revenue number up to this longer-term thinking&nbsp; that if we just improve these things, whether&nbsp;&nbsp; it's... There's no day that people will wake up&nbsp; 10 years, 20 years, 30 years from now and say,&nbsp;&nbsp; "All else equal, I'd rather shop at a store with&nbsp; fewer items than more items or a store with higher&nbsp;&nbsp; prices than low prices or a store where things get&nbsp; to me more slowly versus more quickly." So if we&nbsp;&nbsp; can just improve these things, this is our path to&nbsp; winning.

So those were all inputs to the customer&nbsp;&nbsp; experience. And so we then figured out ways to&nbsp; measure them creating a set of input metrics. And so then when we would develop our operating&nbsp; plans and review our business each week and set&nbsp;&nbsp; our goals, we were hyperfocused on those inputs&nbsp; and the input metrics. As a simple example,&nbsp;&nbsp; there was one tool that Jeff and the leadership&nbsp; team, the S-Team, used called S-Team goals, which&nbsp;&nbsp; are effectively a list of what they would harvest&nbsp; would be like, "Here are the most important goals&nbsp;&nbsp; for the company that I've harvested from all&nbsp; of our operating plans." And I can't remember&nbsp;&nbsp; exactly what year, something around 2007, 2008,&nbsp; they looked at that list, which is about 500&nbsp;&nbsp; items long by the way, and they counted it up.&nbsp; And of that list, only 10 of them actually had a&nbsp;&nbsp; financial metric in it, like revenue or free cash&nbsp; flow or gross profit. These other things we're&nbsp;&nbsp; generally speaking, all... One of those inputs,&nbsp; like I mentioned to you about low prices, and&nbsp;&nbsp; selection, and speed of the customer experience. So, yes, the point was, again, it's this other&nbsp;&nbsp; article... So we took it as an article of faith&nbsp; that if we can just improve these inputs, the&nbsp;&nbsp; outputs will take care of themselves.

The inputs&nbsp; are the things that drive the outputs, which are&nbsp;&nbsp; revenue, customer activity, free cashflow. And&nbsp; so one of Amazon's... It's not really a secret,&nbsp;&nbsp; but one of Amazon's great strengths is [inaudible&nbsp; 01:00:28] focus on those things and make just&nbsp;&nbsp; continuous process, continuous improvement on&nbsp; each one of them and measure them rigorously. The flywheel, you reminded me. It feels like&nbsp; that's another concept Amazon proliferated&nbsp;&nbsp; through all of companies is everyone's&nbsp; trying to create their own little flywheel,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I imagine everyone has that image of the&nbsp; Amazon flywheel in their head with a little&nbsp;&nbsp; orange circle in the center and the black arrows.&nbsp; On the topic of input metrics, just briefly,&nbsp;&nbsp; what is an example of a good input metric? Because&nbsp; I imagine people that are listening are like, "Oh,&nbsp;&nbsp; shit. I got to think about my metrics&nbsp; as input and output now." What's a&nbsp;&nbsp; sign that's a good input metric? A sign that's a good input metric is,&nbsp;&nbsp; first of all, map your end-to-end customer&nbsp; experience. I never worked at Airbnb, but,&nbsp;&nbsp; okay, step one is that they clicked on some ad&nbsp; somewhere and showed up in the website or the&nbsp;&nbsp; app. Now you're in the app.

Now you're looking&nbsp; at this first screen. Well, the first thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; what they're doing is they're browsing and/or&nbsp; they're searching. Okay. How are we measuring&nbsp;&nbsp; the speed, quality, and ease of that browsing and&nbsp; searching? Now they've got onto a detail page for&nbsp;&nbsp; an individual property. How are we measuring the&nbsp; speed, ease, and quality of the different actions&nbsp;&nbsp; they may take like reserve... Forgive me if I get&nbsp; any of my terminology wrong. I'm not an Airbnb- You are, but it doesn't&nbsp; matter. It's close enough. So then you've reserved. Now you have interactions&nbsp; with a property owner. How do I measure the&nbsp;&nbsp; quality of those? How many messages go back&nbsp; and forth? Is a lot of messages a good thing?&nbsp;&nbsp; Is that a bad thing? At first, you may not know&nbsp; the answer to that question. Same thing every&nbsp;&nbsp; step of the way. Then there's the actual rental&nbsp; experience. How do I instrument and measure every&nbsp;&nbsp; part of the customer experience? So you know it's&nbsp; an input metric if it is measuring something with&nbsp;&nbsp; respect to the customer experience. Which ones are&nbsp; the right metrics, which ones are the most causal&nbsp;&nbsp; to the outputs, I couldn't begin to tell you this&nbsp; is actually what you're getting paid for.

You work&nbsp;&nbsp; at Airbnb to figure that out. And basically&nbsp; through an iterative process of measuring,&nbsp;&nbsp; observing, improving, and looking at&nbsp; what the effect is on your outputs. So, again, we didn't really create this&nbsp; concept. This is a concept from Six Sigma,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is using DMAIC, which is I have a process,&nbsp; there's an output of this process, but the inputs&nbsp;&nbsp; are a black box to me. So how do I understand&nbsp; those inputs? Well, DMAIC stands for define... Oh,&nbsp;&nbsp; boy. Define, measure... The A is going to come&nbsp; back to me in a minute. Improve and control.&nbsp;&nbsp; And I'm going to have to... Oh, gosh. The A is&nbsp; lost. I've lost it for a second here. But- Oh, here it is. I'm looking at...&nbsp; Define, measure, analyze, improve- And analyze. Thank you. Yeah, duh, analyze.&nbsp; So we just use that process, which was... And&nbsp;&nbsp; by the way, the way we think about it first is&nbsp; like, "Well, you need to throw a lot of things&nbsp;&nbsp; at the wall. You don't really know which of&nbsp; these things are going to be the most causal."&nbsp;&nbsp; So you know you're doing input metrics. If it&nbsp; is, do you control it? Meaning can you apply&nbsp;&nbsp; resources to make this thing better or worse?&nbsp; Does it touch customers?

It doesn't always have&nbsp;&nbsp; to touch customers, but if it is affecting the&nbsp; customer experience, it's almost certainly is an&nbsp;&nbsp; input. And then which ways you're going to measure&nbsp; that input? You need to try more than one way,&nbsp;&nbsp; because again, we tell a story in the book&nbsp; about one of our most important input metrics,&nbsp;&nbsp; which was how much selection do we have, and we&nbsp; were actually not measuring that right for several&nbsp;&nbsp; years. We had to refine that measurement. So I don't know if you saw this, but I asked on&nbsp;&nbsp; Twitter what questions I should ask you and tell&nbsp; people you were coming on. And something that came&nbsp;&nbsp; up a bunch is with working backwards, obviously&nbsp; some products Amazon has launched have not worked&nbsp;&nbsp; out. Say the Fire Phone is a classic example. What&nbsp; have you learned from that process of just like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Okay. won't work out"? Also&nbsp; knowing many things are not going to work out,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's no way to really . Yes. So the one important thing to share is that&nbsp;&nbsp; all these tools that are described&nbsp; in this book that Amazon is using,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether it's using documents and meetings or the&nbsp; PRFAQ process or input metrics, is that none of&nbsp;&nbsp; these things give you the answer.

They are tools&nbsp; to help you make decisions. So sometimes you're&nbsp;&nbsp; going to make the wrong decision. Fire Phone is&nbsp; a great example that comes up often, people ask,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Well, if you've got this great PRFAQ process, how&nbsp; did you get Fire Phone?" So I was tangential to&nbsp;&nbsp; the Fire Phone team and I worked on it closely&nbsp; and different people have different opinions,&nbsp;&nbsp; so I'll just share my opinion, which is that&nbsp; if you think about, again, how does the PRFAQ&nbsp;&nbsp; process work? Well, there's a customer problem. Well, what was the problem that the Fire Phone&nbsp;&nbsp; was seeking to solve for customers? I would argue&nbsp; this is a case where we made the mistake of what&nbsp;&nbsp; we had a technology solution in mind, which was&nbsp; 3D effects. And then we took that solution and&nbsp;&nbsp; we're then in search of a problem. I don't think&nbsp; it solved any meaningful problems for customers.&nbsp;&nbsp; And candidly, we had to build a version with the&nbsp; music application and the Prime Video application&nbsp;&nbsp; for this phone. And I couldn't figure out how this&nbsp; 3D part would make it better for the customers to&nbsp;&nbsp; discover, watch, or playback any of these media.&nbsp; Maybe there were games that could have been&nbsp;&nbsp; a great solution, I don't know.

But I think the&nbsp; simplest place to go when you see a failed product&nbsp;&nbsp; is to ask yourself, what problem did you solve?&nbsp; And I could get into all kinds of other examples&nbsp;&nbsp; outside of Amazon too, but 9 times out of 10, I&nbsp; think that's where... If it wasn't poor execution,&nbsp;&nbsp; if the product was executed correctly, what&nbsp; was wrong with the concept of the product? I imagine there was a lot of disagreeing&nbsp; and committing on that concentric circle&nbsp;&nbsp; process. Is there anything that you've found of&nbsp; just the number of disagreement and commits in&nbsp;&nbsp; this process of PRFAQ filtering out, I don't know,&nbsp; that tells you maybe this is not a good idea? Not necessarily. So I'll tell you partly also&nbsp; why the Fire Phone happened was, from my point&nbsp;&nbsp; of view, I think that we had had a number of&nbsp; successful products where, in some cases, there&nbsp;&nbsp; were a lot of people who doubted whether it would&nbsp; work. A lot of people inside Amazon doubted that&nbsp;&nbsp; the Kindle was going to be a good idea. I remember&nbsp; contentious board meetings on this topic. So even&nbsp;&nbsp; within a company that was considered innovative,&nbsp; you would have a lot of people that would doubt&nbsp;&nbsp; things.

I can tell you that for years is working&nbsp; on Prime Video, I would tell people about what&nbsp;&nbsp; our envision was of you watching on your TV set&nbsp; and we're going to have our own motion studio.&nbsp;&nbsp; We'll make our own movies and TV shows. And they&nbsp; would laugh at me. They thought that was crazy.&nbsp;&nbsp; So that's not necessarily the sign of whether&nbsp; the product is right or wrong. And so that's a&nbsp;&nbsp; problem actually, that makes it harder to know. Yeah. And I think something Amazon's incredibly&nbsp;&nbsp; good at is being okay with a lot of failures,&nbsp; and I think that's part of the reason there's&nbsp;&nbsp; been so much innovation. Is that true? I'd say it's partially true. I mean, again,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's hard for me to do a compare and contrast with&nbsp; other companies. But I can tell you did we have a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of things that we launched that failed? Yes.&nbsp; Some of them are very public and obvious. I'll&nbsp;&nbsp; give you one that people don't really realize.&nbsp; It's something called... We had a feature in the&nbsp;&nbsp; early 2000s called Slots. And what it was was it&nbsp; was basically third parties could bid on different&nbsp;&nbsp; search terms and put a little ad in there.

Sounds familiar. Well, obviously, that works now on Amazon, but&nbsp; it didn't work then because we simply didn't&nbsp;&nbsp; have the scale that Amazon has today. So a lot&nbsp; of times a product idea, a perfectly good idea,&nbsp;&nbsp; you just have the wrong time or the technology&nbsp; isn't there. I mean, Jeff wrote about a product&nbsp;&nbsp; that was a puck that sat in your kitchen that&nbsp; you would talk to and ask it for things and could&nbsp;&nbsp; shop from it. He wrote about that in 2004. Well,&nbsp; the technology wasn't there to be able to create&nbsp;&nbsp; that little puck, which one day would become Echo.&nbsp; It was a decade away. But we had a lot of things&nbsp;&nbsp; we launched that failed. We were not afraid to&nbsp; take what we considered a well-calculated risk.&nbsp;&nbsp; I think many, many companies are less willing&nbsp; to do so, less committed to product innovation,&nbsp;&nbsp; and really do not want that fear of... They do&nbsp; fear failure, and they're really focused on their&nbsp;&nbsp; near-term financial goals. It's not their fault.&nbsp; It's the way a public company and Wall Street&nbsp;&nbsp; interact with each other creates this dynamic. Just to pull on that thread a little bit more. It&nbsp;&nbsp; feels like a lot of companies talk about,&nbsp; "We're okay failing.

We're okay launching&nbsp;&nbsp; things that don't work," but then in practice,&nbsp; their performance review is impacted. Teams get&nbsp;&nbsp; shut down, budgets get pulled. Is there&nbsp; something that you recommend to companies&nbsp;&nbsp; that want to actually improve in this? What could&nbsp; they actually change and actually do this well? Yeah, I just spoke with actually a senior&nbsp; executive at a well-known Silicon Valley&nbsp;&nbsp; company about this topic the other day and said,&nbsp; "Well, what is it we had structurally at Amazon,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially from a people point of view, that would&nbsp; enable or encourage people to take these risks?"&nbsp;&nbsp; Because, yes, in a lot of companies, if you go&nbsp; work on the project that fails, then your career&nbsp;&nbsp; is in the garbage can and/or your compensation&nbsp; system, you're going to lose out on that bonus.&nbsp;&nbsp; So there were two things. One was our compensation&nbsp; system. So there were no performance bonuses. So&nbsp;&nbsp; if I was running the book business and I had&nbsp; a killer year from a financial point of view,&nbsp;&nbsp; there was no extra kicker for me. And if I ran&nbsp; the book business and it had a bad year, there&nbsp;&nbsp; was no financial penalty for me either because&nbsp; our compensation was based on the stock price.

So we all had an incentive to do what&nbsp; was right for the company, frankly,&nbsp;&nbsp; over a long-term because trying to win off of&nbsp; short-term fluctuations off Wall Street is a&nbsp;&nbsp; losing proposition, which meant that therefore, if&nbsp; I am... Because I had that situation, I moved off&nbsp;&nbsp; of working on our largest P&amp;L, and then the&nbsp; book business and music and video business,&nbsp;&nbsp; now I'm going to go work on digital media. There&nbsp; is zero business there. This might not work. Well,&nbsp;&nbsp; my compensation didn't change as a result of that.&nbsp; It didn't change one way or the other. We tended&nbsp;&nbsp; to also have a performance management system that&nbsp; then would change compensation based on evaluating&nbsp;&nbsp; what did you actually deliver more in an input&nbsp; method. We cared about the outputs too, but just&nbsp;&nbsp; there are plenty of people that could be- Just, there are plenty of people that could be&nbsp;&nbsp; in a business that's up and to the right but has&nbsp; nothing to do with them. And so we tried to focus&nbsp;&nbsp; more on, well, what did you actually build and&nbsp; contribute, ways you improved selection or lowered&nbsp;&nbsp; prices, or whatever that might be. So those two&nbsp; things about the compensation mattered a lot.

And&nbsp;&nbsp; then the second thing was having a CEO who was&nbsp; really committed to it and it wasn't something&nbsp;&nbsp; that they delegated to someone else. So Safi Bahcall, I think, writes about&nbsp;&nbsp; this in his book Loonshots, where part of the&nbsp; conditions that are necessary for innovation to&nbsp;&nbsp; occur are that you actually create different&nbsp; structures of decision-making, of approvals,&nbsp;&nbsp; of all kinds of things, if you create some&nbsp; team that's going to go build something new and&nbsp;&nbsp; innovative. Because most of the structures inside&nbsp; a big company are designed to crush and impede a&nbsp;&nbsp; small innovative team that's trying to go build&nbsp; something new. They need speed, but approval here,&nbsp;&nbsp; approval there, it's going to get in their way. We solved that two ways, one was when we went to&nbsp;&nbsp; go build digital media and AWS, we put two of our&nbsp; smartest leaders in the company on those things,&nbsp;&nbsp; Steve Kessel and Andy Jassy. And number two,&nbsp; they were meeting with Jeff regularly. Jeff was&nbsp;&nbsp; deeply engaged with them, reviewing what are we&nbsp; going to go build? Part of the decision to decide&nbsp;&nbsp; where we're going to go build. And so he could&nbsp; then also, between their seniority and of course&nbsp;&nbsp; him being the CEO, they could run interference&nbsp; on these sorts of things too.

So even if you&nbsp;&nbsp; want to have innovation, even if you really&nbsp; do crave it, you're willing to take the risk,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you don't set up the organization in the&nbsp; right way, you're just not going to get it. Amazing. I'm glad we got into that, I wasn't&nbsp; planning to talk about that and I'm glad we&nbsp;&nbsp; did. Final topic, this concept of Bar Raisers,&nbsp; it feels like it's been such a core way of&nbsp;&nbsp; allowing Amazon to scale successfully, and I think&nbsp; that's something a lot of people can implement,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's a very one-off thing you could just implement&nbsp; at your company. Can you just talk about what&nbsp;&nbsp; this idea of a Bar Raiser is in the hiring&nbsp; process and then what people can do if they&nbsp;&nbsp; wanted to add this to their hiring process? So the Bar Raiser hiring process is a process,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was actually one of the first ones that&nbsp; was established and published, pretty early&nbsp;&nbsp; in the company's history back in 1999.&nbsp; And we created it for a simple reason,&nbsp;&nbsp; to quote one senior leader at Amazon, "We had&nbsp; new people hiring new people hiring new people."&nbsp;&nbsp; We were in our hyper-growth phase, okay? The&nbsp; company was only, what, three, four years old,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we were growing like a weed at that point.

So this started off actually in our tech org,&nbsp;&nbsp; and what our senior leaders in tech realized is,&nbsp; my gosh, we hire some new engineering leader,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then the next thing is that their job is to&nbsp; go hire the senior managers, and they'll go hire&nbsp;&nbsp; managers. And all these people have been here&nbsp; for a week, so they don't really even know our&nbsp;&nbsp; company yet, they don't know our culture yet, they&nbsp; don't know our standards yet. So what information&nbsp;&nbsp; are they using to make these hires, and what&nbsp; information they were using is obviously they&nbsp;&nbsp; were just using their own personal judgment, and&nbsp; their personal judgment combined with whatever&nbsp;&nbsp; criteria they used at prior companies that they&nbsp; worked for. So let's say if they came over from&nbsp;&nbsp; Microsoft, if Microsoft had some methodology or&nbsp; criteria, they probably would just apply that. Well, is that methodology or criteria relevant to&nbsp; our company? Because every company has a different&nbsp;&nbsp; culture, and I'm here to tell you that if&nbsp; someone's been a super successful vice president&nbsp;&nbsp; at Microsoft, does not mean they could be as super&nbsp; successful at Amazon or at Google or Facebook.&nbsp;&nbsp; Sometimes they can, but these companies are very&nbsp; different, they all do work very differently.&nbsp;&nbsp; The way leadership happens and decisions are made&nbsp; are very different.

So how do we fix this problem&nbsp;&nbsp; other than letting it run rampant and basically&nbsp; hire a bunch of people who are, we don't know&nbsp;&nbsp; if they fit our culture and we don't know if&nbsp; they fit our high standards we have for what we&nbsp;&nbsp; expect of engineering leaders or engineers? So they created this Bar Raiser process,&nbsp;&nbsp; which by the way, they borrowed from Microsoft,&nbsp; which had a process called As Appropriate. And the&nbsp;&nbsp; concept was that on every interview loop there's&nbsp; one person, who is not the hiring manager, who&nbsp;&nbsp; doesn't report to the hiring manager, who's not&nbsp; the recruiting manager, they're in the business,&nbsp;&nbsp; they're a software development manager, or&nbsp; they're a marketing manager, and they are on&nbsp;&nbsp; the interview loop and they're a Bar Raiser, which&nbsp; means when we get to the debrief meeting, they&nbsp;&nbsp; will run that meeting, not the hiring manager,&nbsp; not the recruiter, they will run the meeting.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it also means that they technically have veto&nbsp; power over the hiring manager, which, by the way,&nbsp;&nbsp; a good Bar Raiser never uses, or I never saw a Bar&nbsp; Raiser use. I was a Bar Raiser, and in my 15 years&nbsp;&nbsp; at Amazon I never used it, never saw it used.

And then finally, which actually was not true&nbsp;&nbsp; in 1999 but later became true, was once&nbsp; we established our leadership principles,&nbsp;&nbsp; we created a set of objective criteria that&nbsp; would be used and an interview methodology that&nbsp;&nbsp; would be used in every interview, which&nbsp; was the objective criteria would be our&nbsp;&nbsp; leadership principles, and the methodology&nbsp; would be behavioral based interviewing. So this Bar Raiser basically would be a subject&nbsp; matter expert on how this process worked,&nbsp;&nbsp; they'd conduct the debrief to make sure that&nbsp; we were actually adhering to the process, that&nbsp;&nbsp; people were sticking to the objective criteria&nbsp; rather than saying, "I don't think we should&nbsp;&nbsp; hire this person because, I don't know, they&nbsp; don't seem to want to work here enough." Maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; that's a valid reason, but it's actually not part&nbsp; of our objective criteria. And so the Bar Raiser&nbsp;&nbsp; was there to act as a balance also on the urgency&nbsp; bias that every hiring manager has, which is like,&nbsp;&nbsp; I got to fill these roles, but rather than&nbsp; filling them with the next warm body they find,&nbsp;&nbsp; make sure they fill them with people who actually&nbsp; meet our standards, fit our culture and meet our&nbsp;&nbsp; standards for functional excellence too.

Such a cool process. Two questions along these&nbsp;&nbsp; lines, one is who has the final decision&nbsp; in hiring, is it the hiring manager? Yes. And this&nbsp;&nbsp; is just off advice from the Bar Raiser? Yeah, so this often gets confused. The decision&nbsp;&nbsp; maker is the hiring manager, the whole interview&nbsp; loop and the Bar Raiser are actually just there to&nbsp;&nbsp; help the hiring manager make the right decision.&nbsp; Now oftentimes the hiring manager could feel like&nbsp;&nbsp; this is actually a bureaucratic process and a&nbsp; group of people that I have to sell and they're&nbsp;&nbsp; just in my way between me and hiring this person,&nbsp; which is kind of a natural feeling to have. But one of the feedback I would always give&nbsp; managers who are new to this is like, no, no,&nbsp;&nbsp; no, that's not the way to think about it, think&nbsp; about these people are helping you, because the&nbsp;&nbsp; amount of time you're going to put into the hiring&nbsp; process may seem like a lot, but if you hire the&nbsp;&nbsp; wrong person, boy, that amount of time you're&nbsp; going to have to deal with managing that person,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's going to be a lot more, the impact on the&nbsp; team, impact on you.

So making a great decision&nbsp;&nbsp; here is important, they're here to help you. So yes, the final decision is with the hiring&nbsp;&nbsp; manager, technically speaking the Bar Raiser&nbsp; could block them from a decision to hire someone,&nbsp;&nbsp; but they would, well done they would help&nbsp; the hiring manager see the reasons not to&nbsp;&nbsp; hire the person through a Socratic method&nbsp; and how they would guide the discussion. And then when you're choosing a Bar Raiser, is&nbsp; there any suggestions you have of who to choose&nbsp;&nbsp; and how often you pull them into these things?&nbsp; Because it could also be a huge time suck. It is a huge time suck, and it sometimes could&nbsp; be up to 10 hours of my week spent actually as a&nbsp;&nbsp; Bar Raiser. The selection process is you start&nbsp; with, as a company, I would recommend if you&nbsp;&nbsp; wanted to do this, you'd pick a department&nbsp; to pilot it with. Pick people who are A,&nbsp;&nbsp; care a lot about your hiring process, B, appear&nbsp; to be good interviewers, and C, seem to have high&nbsp;&nbsp; standards. It's also a great role for people who&nbsp; are earlier in their career by giving them this&nbsp;&nbsp; additional leadership opportunity. It's a great&nbsp; way to grow and develop leaders, by the way,&nbsp;&nbsp; because this added responsibility is a great way&nbsp; for them to start testing out leadership.

And you&nbsp;&nbsp; have to train them properly and you have to have&nbsp; dedication to the process, but I generally would&nbsp;&nbsp; try to pilot it within one group at first. One last question before we get to our very&nbsp;&nbsp; exciting lightning round. Many people are&nbsp; listening to this, they're considering&nbsp;&nbsp; implementing some of these things, trying to&nbsp; figure out how to actually make these real.&nbsp;&nbsp; If someone were trying to move along the path of&nbsp; becoming more Amazonian, which of these elements&nbsp;&nbsp; and processes do you think often has the most&nbsp; impact? And/or is there something fundamental that&nbsp;&nbsp; needs to change to allow for some change like this&nbsp; to happen at a company, in your experience? Yeah, good question. And the first thing I'd&nbsp; say is one thing to be careful of is a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; times when I'm talking to a company about these&nbsp; processes they say, well, does this mean we need&nbsp;&nbsp; to turn into Amazon? And first thing I tell them&nbsp; is, well, first of all, I couldn't turn you into&nbsp;&nbsp; Amazon if I wanted to, because you have your own&nbsp; culture. And secondly, no, that's not the idea is&nbsp;&nbsp; for you to try to become Amazon, the purpose is to&nbsp; sort of look at these processes and best practices&nbsp;&nbsp; they have and consider adopting parts or all of&nbsp; them into your organization to improve these,&nbsp;&nbsp; every company of a certain scale has these same&nbsp; processes, so this is just a different way to do&nbsp;&nbsp; them.

So you should have scalable, repeatable&nbsp; processes for each one of these, pick one,&nbsp;&nbsp; here's one choice of ways to do these things. The other piece of advice I give is that a lot&nbsp;&nbsp; of these changes are relatively profound, they&nbsp; really require buy-in all the way up to the CEO,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you're really going to change&nbsp; the way you do product development,&nbsp;&nbsp; or if you're really going to change the way you do&nbsp; hiring, that probably requires buy-in of the CEO,&nbsp;&nbsp; and so I would seek to get that probably before I&nbsp; would move too fast. Some of these things, though,&nbsp;&nbsp; can be piloted in your own little group, like&nbsp; your one little product development group. You&nbsp;&nbsp; want to decide you want to start writing PR FAQs,&nbsp; you probably can decide to do that. But again,&nbsp;&nbsp; try to check with your leadership. The other thing I would just tell you&nbsp;&nbsp; is that for any of these processes, these in our&nbsp; book, or any book, implementing a new process is&nbsp;&nbsp; not easy. And if you go into it lightly and dip&nbsp; your toes into it and try it out, it's probably&nbsp;&nbsp; not going to work for you, because it'll be hard&nbsp; at first, and it requires some level of commitment&nbsp;&nbsp; to actually work through that hard part and say,&nbsp; I'm really committed to doing this, and it will&nbsp;&nbsp; take a few months for you to get good at it.

So&nbsp; you have to have commitment and discipline to get&nbsp;&nbsp; through it. Anyone can really do these things,&nbsp; it just requires commitment and discipline. And in our chat we've basically just scratched the&nbsp; surface of a lot of these things, if people want&nbsp;&nbsp; to dig deeper there's obviously your book Working&nbsp; Backwards, which we'll link to in the show notes.&nbsp;&nbsp; I know you also work with companies to implement a&nbsp; lot of these practices. Could you just talk about&nbsp;&nbsp; what it is you can help folks with and then how&nbsp; to potentially engage if they're interested? Sure, great. Yeah, Colin, and I, one of&nbsp; the reasons we wrote this book was to pass&nbsp;&nbsp; on what we learned to the next generation&nbsp; of business leaders at scale with a book,&nbsp;&nbsp; but also because we had a passion to work with&nbsp; companies directly one-to-one. And so we are&nbsp;&nbsp; advisors, consultants, call it what you will,&nbsp; but non-traditional, we don't have a team of&nbsp;&nbsp; people working for us. Each of us just work&nbsp; directly with the companies who engage us. And generally speaking what we do is the right&nbsp; kind of company for us to work with, first of all,&nbsp;&nbsp; has to achieve a certain scale.

Companies&nbsp; that are in the product market fit phase,&nbsp;&nbsp; they need to focus on getting product market fit,&nbsp; they probably don't really need to focus much on&nbsp;&nbsp; how they put in scalable, durable processes. Like&nbsp; sure, some of these could definitely be helpful to&nbsp;&nbsp; you even if you're in that phase, but really these&nbsp; are designed for, my company's become complex now,&nbsp;&nbsp; I've got multiple product lines, it's well over&nbsp; 100 million in annual run rate, growing fast,&nbsp;&nbsp; complex. So most of our clients are either&nbsp; large, well past series C private companies,&nbsp;&nbsp; or they're public companies. And in most&nbsp; cases, a C-level leader, or the CEO themselves,&nbsp;&nbsp; has read our book and recognizes that they have&nbsp; a lot of the same problems that we had at Amazon,&nbsp;&nbsp; and looks at these as useful solutions&nbsp; and wants us to help them implement them. So we tend to usually first actually go in and&nbsp; do an assessment of how they do things today,&nbsp;&nbsp; because to help people move from one place to&nbsp; another we have to understand where they are,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then we come up with a prioritized list&nbsp; along with that, the CEO and C-level leaders,&nbsp;&nbsp; of what are the things that would be most useful,&nbsp; what are the symptoms and problems you're having&nbsp;&nbsp; and what are the root cause solutions that could&nbsp; be found in these processes?

And then we sort of&nbsp;&nbsp; prioritize those and come up with a plan to work&nbsp; within the organization to help them implement&nbsp;&nbsp; those. And what's also different is that we're&nbsp; very hands- on working at all levels of the&nbsp;&nbsp; company, and as we do it we will be there in the&nbsp; meetings with the teams to help coach them and&nbsp;&nbsp; teach them along so that we make sure that it&nbsp; actually gets implemented properly and to spec,&nbsp;&nbsp; and they get to the outcome they want. Sounds amazing. How would people engage&nbsp;&nbsp; with you if they wanted to explore this? Simple way is you can just send an email,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm bill@workingbackwards.com, and Colin is&nbsp; colin@workingbackwards.com. You can also just&nbsp;&nbsp; check out our website, www. workingbackwards.com.&nbsp; We have some information there, we have a contact&nbsp;&nbsp; us form, those would be the best ways. Okay. Well with that we've reached our&nbsp;&nbsp; very exciting lightning round. I've got&nbsp; six questions for you, are you ready? I'll try. Interestingly,&nbsp;&nbsp; as I look through the list, many of them relate to&nbsp; using Amazon, which is pretty funny. The first is,&nbsp;&nbsp; what are two or three books that you've&nbsp; recommended most to other people? So I'd say in the management world, not&nbsp; surprisingly, Good to Great.

I'd say&nbsp;&nbsp; Drucker on Management, or Drucker, The Effective&nbsp; Executive. And then the other one I'd say that's&nbsp;&nbsp; a little bit different is I'd recommend the&nbsp; Steve Jobs biography. I never worked at Apple,&nbsp;&nbsp; but looking at that arc, a lot of the way those&nbsp; things worked was not that different from what&nbsp;&nbsp; I experienced at Amazon, so it's a good window&nbsp; into what it's like to be inside some company,&nbsp;&nbsp; tech company, that goes through product&nbsp; innovation and big growth. On a personal basis,&nbsp;&nbsp; recent books would be Seveneves by Neal Stephenson&nbsp; is a favorite, and A Gentleman in Moscow. Amazing. Can you get them all on Amazon? Another Amazon related question potentially is&nbsp; do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show?&nbsp;&nbsp; Might be on Prime, might not be. Yeah, my favorite recent movie is&nbsp;&nbsp; the latest Dune movie, and I can't&nbsp; wait for the new one to come out. When is that coming out? It seems&nbsp; like I've been waiting a long time. I think it's supposed to come out next month.&nbsp; I used to know this, I used to have to know&nbsp;&nbsp; the answer to this question, but I don't&nbsp; anymore. But I anxiously await the next one,&nbsp;&nbsp; I thought that last one was awesome.

I even liked&nbsp; the original Dune movie, so I'm probably unusual&nbsp;&nbsp; that way. And I just watched, along with my&nbsp; wife, we just enjoyed watching the TV series&nbsp;&nbsp; A Spy Among Friends, which was on MGM+.
