---
title: "Brian Chesky's secret mentor who scaled Airbnb (after dying 9 times & building a hotel empire)"
date: "2025-08-03"
type: "podcast"
guest: ""
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Chip Conley is the founder of Joie de Vivre hotels, the second-largest boutique hotel brand in the world. At age 52, he joined Airbnb as Head of Global Hospitality and Strategy, reporting to CEO Brian"
word_count: 14822
youtube_id: "R5_ypwiRIyo"
---

Let's paint a picture of just what it was like to&nbsp; join Airbnb in your 50s. I was mentoring Brian,&nbsp;&nbsp; but he was also my boss. I was 52. The average&nbsp; age was 26. I had to be both wise and curious and&nbsp;&nbsp; often the dumbest person in the room. So, it's&nbsp; great to be in founder mode. It's not as great&nbsp;&nbsp; to be working for someone in founder mode. Brian&nbsp; assumed everybody else was going to work at the&nbsp;&nbsp; same pace and duration. His point of view is like,&nbsp; hey, we're having a meeting in the office tonight&nbsp;&nbsp; at 10:00. You know, be there. Everyone's talking&nbsp; about we got to make the product better. We got&nbsp;&nbsp; to optimize this button and improve conversion.&nbsp; Isn't the product the homes and the apartments?&nbsp;&nbsp; Jobat said no product in the tech industry&nbsp; is something different. I just said, listen,&nbsp;&nbsp; let's get some older people who are hosts in here.&nbsp; This whole story is a really good example of the&nbsp;&nbsp; value of having folks that are older. When you&nbsp; have older brains connecting the dots, younger&nbsp;&nbsp; team members being really fast and focused, it's&nbsp; brilliant. And people won't notice your wrinkles&nbsp;&nbsp; as much as they'll notice your energy.

The Airbnb&nbsp; experience led you to starting something called&nbsp;&nbsp; the modern elder academy. So if you think about&nbsp; the caterpillar to butterfly journey, midlife is&nbsp;&nbsp; the crystallis. Midlife is not crisis. I'm happier&nbsp; today at 64 than I was at 47 when I was going&nbsp;&nbsp; through my flatline experience. Well, let's back&nbsp; up a little bit. This near-death experience today,&nbsp;&nbsp; my guest is Chip Connelly. Chip is one of the&nbsp; most extraordinary and interesting people that&nbsp;&nbsp; you'll ever meet. He was a founding member of the&nbsp; board of Burning Man. He was on the board of the&nbsp;&nbsp; Eselin Institute in Big Su. At 26, he started a&nbsp; hotel chain called Jadviv, which went on to become&nbsp;&nbsp; the second largest boutique hotel chain in the US.&nbsp; After selling it, Brian Chesy personally recruited&nbsp;&nbsp; Chip to join Airbnb to help Brian and the company&nbsp; transform from a fast growing startup to the&nbsp;&nbsp; world's most valuable hospitality brand. After&nbsp; leaving Airbnb, where he was known as the modern&nbsp;&nbsp; elder, Chip started the Modern Elder Academy, now&nbsp; known as MEA, the world's first midlife wisdom&nbsp;&nbsp; school with large, sprawling, beautiful campuses&nbsp; in Baja and Santa Fe. He's also written seven&nbsp;&nbsp; books, given a TED talk, and is just a genuinely&nbsp; interesting and amazing human and friend.

In our&nbsp;&nbsp; conversation, we explore how to be successful in&nbsp; tech as you age. What he's learned working with&nbsp;&nbsp; and for Brian Chesy, including a lot of real talk,&nbsp; how to build a great culture at your company,&nbsp;&nbsp; his near-death experience, and how it changed&nbsp; the trajectory of his life, and so much more. If&nbsp;&nbsp; you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe&nbsp; and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or&nbsp;&nbsp; YouTube. Also, if you become an annual subscriber&nbsp; of my newsletter, you get a year free of a&nbsp;&nbsp; bunch of incredible products, including Replet,&nbsp; Lovable, Bolt, NAN, Linear, Superhum, Descript,&nbsp;&nbsp; Whisper Flow, Gamar, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,&nbsp; Magic Patterns, Raycast, JPRD, Mobin, and more.&nbsp;&nbsp; Check it out at lennisnewsletter.com and click&nbsp; bundle. With that, I bring you Chip Connelly.&nbsp;&nbsp; This episode is brought to you by Great Question,&nbsp; the all-in-one UX research platform loved by teams&nbsp;&nbsp; at Brex, Canva, into it, and more. One of the&nbsp; most common things I hear from PMs and founders&nbsp;&nbsp; that I talk to is, "I know I should be speaking to&nbsp; customers more, but I just don't have the time or&nbsp;&nbsp; the tools." That's exactly the gap Great Question&nbsp; fills. Great Question makes it easy for anyone&nbsp;&nbsp; on your team, not just researchers, to recruit&nbsp; participants, run interviews, send surveys, test&nbsp;&nbsp; prototypes, and then share it all with powerful&nbsp; video clips.

It's everything you need to put your&nbsp;&nbsp; customers at the center of your product decisions.&nbsp; With a prompt as simple as, "Why did users choose&nbsp;&nbsp; us over competitors?" Great question not only&nbsp; reveals what your customers have already shared,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it also makes it incredibly easy to ask them&nbsp; in the moment for fresh insights from the right&nbsp;&nbsp; segment. Picture this. Your roadmap's clear. Your&nbsp; team's aligned. You're shipping with confidence,&nbsp;&nbsp; and you're building exactly what your customers&nbsp; need. Head to greatquest.com/lenny to get started.&nbsp;&nbsp; This episode is brought to you by Vanta.&nbsp; When it comes to ensuring your company has&nbsp;&nbsp; top-notch security practices, things get&nbsp; complicated fast. Now you can assess risk,&nbsp;&nbsp; secure the trust of your customers, and automate&nbsp; compliance for SOCK 2, ISO 27,01, HIPPA,&nbsp;&nbsp; and more with a single platform, Vanta. Vanta's&nbsp; marketleading trust management platform helps&nbsp;&nbsp; you continuously monitor compliance alongside&nbsp; reporting and tracking risk. Plus, you can&nbsp;&nbsp; save hours by completing security questionnaires&nbsp; with Vanta AI. Join thousands of global companies&nbsp;&nbsp; that use Vanta to automate evidence collection,&nbsp; unify risk management, and streamline security&nbsp;&nbsp; reviews. Get $1,000 off Vanta when you go&nbsp; to vanta.com/lenny. That's venta.com/lenny. Chip, thank you so much for being here and welcome&nbsp; to the podcast.

Oh my god, Lenny. I I sort of feel&nbsp;&nbsp; like I'm your father who's so proud of his son has&nbsp; done. My son has done so well and I I like to talk&nbsp;&nbsp; about tell all my friends about you. Wow. Uh I am&nbsp; honored. Uh I'm happy that I'm making you proud,&nbsp;&nbsp; Chip, and I feel I feel the same in reverse. Uh we&nbsp; got to work together for many years at Airbnb. I&nbsp;&nbsp; got to learn a ton from you. Uh I'm really excited&nbsp; that more people are going to get to learn from&nbsp;&nbsp; you from this conversation. I'm thinking that the&nbsp; way that we break up this conversation is kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; break it up into three parts which are kind of the&nbsp; three arcs of your career and the three parts are&nbsp;&nbsp; your uh early career building your time at Airbnb&nbsp; where we got to work together and then talking&nbsp;&nbsp; through what you're working on now the modern&nbsp; elder academy I actually want to start with the&nbsp;&nbsp; middle chapter I want to talk about Airbnb where&nbsp; we got to work together let's paint a picture&nbsp;&nbsp; of just what it was like for you to join Airbnb&nbsp; in your 50s uh surround ed by a bunch of 20some&nbsp;&nbsp; 30somes reporting to Brian Jesy who is I don't&nbsp; know in his 30s.

What was that like? So yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; I I wasn't planning on doing this. I I got a call&nbsp; uh from a woman named Natalie Tucci who worked at&nbsp;&nbsp; Airbnb and said I we Brian Chesy and I have been&nbsp; talking about having you come in and give a talk.&nbsp;&nbsp; Are you open to that? And I was like well what&nbsp; is Airbnb? This was uh 13 years ago. This was&nbsp;&nbsp; I think it was the end of 2012 and then Brian&nbsp; called me and said, "Listen, we really want&nbsp;&nbsp; you to come in." And so I came in and gave a talk&nbsp; about innovation and hospitality. And and I think&nbsp;&nbsp; I I didn't realize it was sort of a a a dress&nbsp; rehearsal for Brian to sort of see whether the&nbsp;&nbsp; younger crowd there um I was 52, the average&nbsp; age was 26 would, you know, feel good about,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, an old geyser like me with a bricks and&nbsp; mortar boutique hotel background uh talking about&nbsp;&nbsp; the industry that Airbnb was disrupting. Um, and&nbsp; as it turns out, people liked me. And, um, so,&nbsp;&nbsp; uh, Brian said, "I want you to come in for&nbsp; and work 15 hours a week as a consultant.

I&nbsp;&nbsp; want you to be my in-house mentor for both me&nbsp; and Joe and and Nate." And and I said, "Okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, 15 hours a week is great." And then,&nbsp; uh, within three weeks, it was 15 hours a day.&nbsp;&nbsp; And and Brian and I was saying to Brian, you&nbsp; know, you're actually not paying me anything.&nbsp;&nbsp; Um they he gave me uh a little bit of stock that&nbsp; would would vest in six months and I said like I&nbsp;&nbsp; don't know that this deal is working for me. Um&nbsp; this is you you it seems like the company needs&nbsp;&nbsp; me a little more than you said and and he said&nbsp; yeah I got you. I just wanted you to get in here&nbsp;&nbsp; and see like what you could do. And long story&nbsp; short is I ended up going full-time and um it was&nbsp;&nbsp; hard at first, Lenny, because I didn't understand&nbsp; the tech lingo. I I didn't have any background.&nbsp;&nbsp; I was 52. I'd never worked in a tech company&nbsp; before. I was mentoring Brian on leadership,&nbsp;&nbsp; but he was also my boss. I was the um head of&nbsp; global hospitality and strategy. uh so which&nbsp;&nbsp; mess meant initially I was in charge of all the&nbsp; hosts in the world over time that like you know&nbsp;&nbsp; that meant a lot more things too I I was involved&nbsp; in mo many parts of the business definitely not&nbsp;&nbsp; the technical parts but I think the hardest thing&nbsp; for me is was just that initially when people were&nbsp;&nbsp; talking about product and Joe said you know I'm&nbsp; the chief product officer and I'm like well isn't&nbsp;&nbsp; the product isn't the product the homes and the&nbsp; apartments and Jobot said no product in the tech&nbsp;&nbsp; industry is something different.

And so I had to&nbsp; be both wise and curious and often the dumbest&nbsp;&nbsp; person in the room. And that was uh it required&nbsp; me to have a certain amount of humility as well&nbsp;&nbsp; as to be reporting to a guy 21 years younger&nbsp; than me, Brian. That actually the point you're&nbsp;&nbsp; making there about what is the product? I I&nbsp; asked uh Laura Hughes, formerly Laura Modi,&nbsp;&nbsp; what to talk to you about, who we got to work&nbsp; together. She's the CEO of Bobby now. uh you work&nbsp;&nbsp; closely with her at Airbnb and she said this was&nbsp; the thing that stuck with her most about working&nbsp;&nbsp; with you is coming in and and everyone's talking&nbsp; to optimize this button and improve conversion&nbsp; and product product and you're just like what is&nbsp;&nbsp; like what is the product? I thought the product of&nbsp; Airbnb was the hosts and the experiences and the&nbsp;&nbsp; trips and I think that shows the value of someone&nbsp; like you coming in with different experience and&nbsp;&nbsp; also older and helping us communicate differently&nbsp; to hosts who also don't understand. Well, there's&nbsp;&nbsp; an interesting thing also, Lenny, and you you know&nbsp; this, the difference in age between our hosts and&nbsp;&nbsp; our guests was probably about 10 years maybe.

And&nbsp; over time, it actually got higher um because we&nbsp;&nbsp; started actually reaching out more uh aggressively&nbsp; to you know, boomers and and Gen Xers to be hosts.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so you had I remember one point um and again,&nbsp; let's get into product talk here. I remember one&nbsp;&nbsp; point that there was a conversation that was going&nbsp; on about taking Airbnb so it was mobile only. Um,&nbsp;&nbsp; I mean, partly because back in the day, the two&nbsp; sharing economy darlings were Uber and Airbnb. And&nbsp;&nbsp; of course, Uber was pretty much a mobile only app.&nbsp; And Airbnb started as non-mobile and then went&nbsp;&nbsp; mobile. And then I was like, "Oh, wouldn't it be&nbsp; interesting if everything was mobile?" And at some&nbsp;&nbsp; point, I just said, "Listen, let's get some older&nbsp; people who are hosts in here to see how well they&nbsp;&nbsp; will be versed in in in managing their listing&nbsp; purely on mobile." And so there were times where I&nbsp;&nbsp; was a voice for older uh users in this case hosts&nbsp; um that was helpful to you know guys and women in&nbsp;&nbsp; their 20s who are the engineers and designers and&nbsp; product managers and um I always liked working&nbsp;&nbsp; with you.

I want to just compliment Lenny um for&nbsp; a minute. How sweet is that? because and we did a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot, you know, we were we did a lot of different&nbsp; things together. And what I appreciated was you&nbsp;&nbsp; you had a humility to you that was different than&nbsp; a lot of the other product managers. There's other&nbsp;&nbsp; product managers, I'm not going to mention their&nbsp; names, and there some of these some of these&nbsp;&nbsp; product managers were very good. There were other&nbsp; product managers though who I found it sometimes&nbsp;&nbsp; hard to work with because they expected me to&nbsp; know as much as they did. And you know, I guess&nbsp;&nbsp; it would be the if the opposite side of that would&nbsp; be um an older manager expecting a younger manager&nbsp;&nbsp; to have as much emotional intelligence because&nbsp; emotional intelligence on average is something&nbsp;&nbsp; we get better at as we get older. So I think the&nbsp; key for me to work in that environment and make&nbsp;&nbsp; it work was to not pretend to know things I didn't&nbsp; know. It was to have a sense of humor and humility&nbsp;&nbsp; in how I operated. And it was to show respect&nbsp; and hope that I got in return.

And I don't know&nbsp;&nbsp; if that you felt that way, Lenny. I, you know,&nbsp; that's that's the try the kind of environment&nbsp;&nbsp; I tried to to embody there. Absolutely. There's a&nbsp; couple of threads there I want to follow. One is&nbsp;&nbsp; just working for Brian. A lot of people talk about&nbsp; founder mode and the power of founder mode. It's&nbsp;&nbsp; so great. And guess who like you know populated&nbsp; that recently? That was Brian. Exactly. Uh so it's&nbsp;&nbsp; great to be in founder mode. It's not not as great&nbsp; to be working for someone in founder mode. Often a&nbsp;&nbsp; very challenging place to be. Yes. You reported&nbsp; to Brian. Uh also you were just your own boss&nbsp;&nbsp; basically your entire career. You never really had&nbsp; to report to someone before. Also he was in his&nbsp;&nbsp; 30s, you're in your 50s. What was it like working&nbsp; for Brian? Uh you know like the more real you can&nbsp;&nbsp; be the better because a lot of people always talk&nbsp; about here is like I was wonderful. I learned so&nbsp;&nbsp; much. Just like what was that experience like?&nbsp; What did you learn from working for someone like&nbsp;&nbsp; Brian? Well, let's start with the fact that it&nbsp; I would never have gone to work for Airbnb if&nbsp;&nbsp; I didn't believe in Brian because quite frankly&nbsp; when Brian approached me and we started talking&nbsp;&nbsp; about I was like I wasn't sure I liked the the&nbsp; business model all that well as a hotel year.

So&nbsp;&nbsp; I had to believe in something beyond the business&nbsp; model because I wasn't sure that this the business&nbsp;&nbsp; model would work. Although soon after joining I&nbsp; saw the numbers I was like wow this is working&nbsp;&nbsp; pretty well. But I believed in Brian because the&nbsp; thing that Brian showed up with initially was&nbsp;&nbsp; just a curiosity and an appetite for learning. You&nbsp; know, I remember back in 2011 when the, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; the big debacle happened with um the the apartment&nbsp; getting uh trashed by a guest and and so Brian&nbsp;&nbsp; decided he was going to go to find, you know,&nbsp; George Tennant, the the former head of the CIA.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so like Jo Brian would go to experts and and&nbsp; say to the expert, I don't know what the hell I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; doing. And um he did that with me when it came to&nbsp; hospitality. So I appreciated that a guy who had a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of hubris, and Brian definitely has a lot of&nbsp; hubris, could also have the humility to to say,&nbsp;&nbsp; I want to learn more about this. So it's sort of&nbsp; a growth mindset. What was hard with Brian is I'd&nbsp;&nbsp; say three things. Um, number one is Brian assumed&nbsp; everybody else was going to work at the same pace&nbsp;&nbsp; and duration, you know, and he still has this&nbsp; issue.

I mean, the beautiful thing about Brian&nbsp;&nbsp; is he's been very honest in the last couple years&nbsp; on podcasts about his workcoholism and about the&nbsp;&nbsp; fact that the way he lives his life is not like&nbsp; other people. But back when I joined, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; his point of view was like, hey, we're having a&nbsp; meeting in the in the office tonight at 10:00,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, be there. It's like, really? No, I don't&nbsp; I don't think so. But so so I think the the the&nbsp;&nbsp; fact that Brian assumed everybody else was was as&nbsp; one-dimensional in their focus as him was at times&nbsp;&nbsp; a problem, especially for a guy like me who was&nbsp; I was in a stage in my career where like I have&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of interests. Um, so that was one. Number&nbsp; two is Brian admires and admired in back then&nbsp;&nbsp; Steve Jobs so much that there was a sense that&nbsp; as a guy who came from the product world uh from&nbsp;&nbsp; the Rhode Island School of Design, he knew better&nbsp; than anybody else. And so there was this you know&nbsp;&nbsp; one of the challenges for a CEO sometimes and I&nbsp; this was my experience in my 24 years of running&nbsp;&nbsp; Viv, my boutique hotel company is it feels good&nbsp; when you feel needed.

Um, and to come into a room&nbsp;&nbsp; and sort of see something and then point out the&nbsp; things that are wrong makes you feel good. And&nbsp;&nbsp; if you don't have emotional intelligence, you&nbsp; can that process can really piss people off or&nbsp;&nbsp; or demotiv demotivate people. And in Brian's&nbsp; case, I didn't have to deal with that too much&nbsp;&nbsp; because he didn't understand when I was starting.&nbsp; It was really I was in charge of the hosts around&nbsp;&nbsp; the world. And so quite frankly, the idea of&nbsp; what's the psychology of the host? What's a host&nbsp;&nbsp; entrepreneur like? I went on a world tour to 20&nbsp; different cities and went and talked to hosts. And&nbsp;&nbsp; I think I came back from that with a little bit of&nbsp; credibility with Brian to say like, hey, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; yes, our data science team and the quality folks&nbsp; were who are doing qualitative interviews, they're&nbsp;&nbsp; getting something out of this, but I actually went&nbsp; into the homes of these hosts in all around the&nbsp;&nbsp; world. And and I think I I was lucky because Brian&nbsp; did less of that than he did with other people.&nbsp;&nbsp; But he for the for the product team, my god, I&nbsp; mean, a product meeting with Brian would keep&nbsp;&nbsp; people up the night before.

uh not just because&nbsp; they were actually working all night long to&nbsp;&nbsp; get prepared, but also that they knew they would&nbsp; work all night long because they probably wouldn't&nbsp;&nbsp; sleep in anticipation for this. So that's that&nbsp; was another issue for I'd say um I think the other&nbsp;&nbsp; thing that you know that and and in each of these&nbsp; cases I think Brian's getting better. So just&nbsp;&nbsp; like Steve Jobs got better over time when he left&nbsp; and then he came back, he was much better when he&nbsp;&nbsp; came back from all the people I've talked with who&nbsp; worked with him. I'd say the third thing for Brian&nbsp;&nbsp; was the sense that adding a zero to something&nbsp; in terms of expectations or thinking that you're&nbsp;&nbsp; going to set a deadline that is unreasonable is&nbsp; necessary because if you don't do that there's&nbsp;&nbsp; an almost an underlying message that people won't&nbsp; kick ass on their own. So there was a sense that&nbsp;&nbsp; Brian had that he had to maybe create ridiculous&nbsp; goals because even if we hit half of that goal,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was very encouraging. What he missed in that&nbsp; was the fact that when you miss a goal and when&nbsp;&nbsp; you have someone who has power over you setting&nbsp; the goal or encouraging a particular goal, you're&nbsp;&nbsp; setting people up for, you know, a lot of stress.&nbsp; And so at the end of the day, I think Brian is an,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, a generational leader for as a&nbsp; millennial.

Um, and I think he deserves a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; credit and Airbnb is as successful as it is partly&nbsp; because of Brian's leadership and I would not have&nbsp;&nbsp; been there without him. Having said that, I had&nbsp; to hold my tongue in meetings sometimes uh when&nbsp;&nbsp; I saw how he was operating because I wouldn't&nbsp; have done it that way. And I think over time,&nbsp;&nbsp; I hope I had a little bit of influence on him in&nbsp; terms of how to apply some emotional intelligence&nbsp;&nbsp; uh to leading people. For people in this position,&nbsp; a lot of people work for founders, especially now&nbsp;&nbsp; that founder mode is a thing. Every founder is&nbsp; just like, I'm the founder. You got to do what&nbsp;&nbsp; I tell you. It's founder mode. We're getting this&nbsp; is how we win. We're in founder mode. You shared&nbsp;&nbsp; really good insight of building credibility as&nbsp; a really good lever to work better with someone&nbsp;&nbsp; like that. Is there anything else you just think&nbsp; as uh tactics to be effective with founders in&nbsp;&nbsp; founder mode? So, if I knowing what I know now,&nbsp; I would say Lenny, let's let's do a little pep&nbsp;&nbsp; talk you and me before the meeting.

I want you&nbsp; to start the meeting with the following uh as as&nbsp;&nbsp; you present and Brian's in the room. So, Brian,&nbsp; let's talk about what we're trying to accomplish&nbsp;&nbsp; here. Let's get really clear, and you probably&nbsp; did this, but let's get really clear on what&nbsp;&nbsp; um both what's the intention of this iteration&nbsp; we're doing on the product, like what defines&nbsp;&nbsp; success and what do I want to get accomplished in&nbsp; this meeting? And you start with that because that&nbsp;&nbsp; actually helps to make sure there's alignment. And&nbsp; frankly, if there's not alignment, you might as&nbsp;&nbsp; well not have the meeting. Let's spend the rest of&nbsp; this meeting talking about alignment. That's what&nbsp;&nbsp; I would do because that's something you can come&nbsp; back to over and over again during the rest of the&nbsp;&nbsp; meeting. When Brian or the founder, whomever it&nbsp; is, is beating you up on something, saying like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Well, let me tell you why it looks like that&nbsp; or why we're doing that." It goes back to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, the three principles or the three key&nbsp; goals we're we're trying to do with this product&nbsp;&nbsp; update. And um yeah, so so try to set alignment&nbsp; on the front end.

That's a that's an important&nbsp;&nbsp; tip for anyone working with anyone even. So I love&nbsp; I love just that that works especially well here.&nbsp;&nbsp; And then just going back to the credibility piece,&nbsp; I what you shared there is you went on this world&nbsp;&nbsp; tour. Not something everyone can do, but just like&nbsp; getting really close to your customers and using&nbsp;&nbsp; that as a hey, I actually know what I'm talking&nbsp; about. You actually should listen to me even&nbsp;&nbsp; though you're the founder. Yeah. And don't and I&nbsp; think the other thing is um PowerPoint or whatever&nbsp;&nbsp; whatever tool you're using. I mean like just be&nbsp; careful about being overly reliant upon it. It&nbsp;&nbsp; just it's especially when you have a combustible&nbsp; founder who may take you off path such that your&nbsp;&nbsp; deck in its current order makes no sense at&nbsp; all. So that I always wanted to really limit&nbsp;&nbsp; the deck as much as possible because I didn't&nbsp; know where the meeting was going to go and I&nbsp;&nbsp; wanted the deck's helpful at the start at the very&nbsp; start to just sort of set principles, set goals.&nbsp;&nbsp; Um but yeah, so this whole story of you joining&nbsp; Airbnb in your 50s is a really good example of of&nbsp;&nbsp; uh c intergenerational collaboration, something&nbsp; that you're big on just the value of having folks&nbsp;&nbsp; that are older working at tech companies.

Maybe&nbsp; just talk about that broadly and then we segue&nbsp;&nbsp; into other elements of your career. I wrote&nbsp; a book called Wisdom at Work: The Making of&nbsp;&nbsp; a Modern Elder after my Airbnb experience and um&nbsp; I did a lot of research. I was like, "Wow, so why&nbsp;&nbsp; do we have less intergenerational collaboration&nbsp; in the workplace, especially in Silicon Valley,&nbsp;&nbsp; than we could we could use?" And I started&nbsp; interviewing people. Then I started talking to&nbsp;&nbsp; brain scientists, neuroscientists, and realized&nbsp; that a younger brain has fluid intelligence,&nbsp;&nbsp; tends to be fast and focused, really good at&nbsp; problem solving, uh, very good at linearity in&nbsp;&nbsp; terms of looking at things. As you get older,&nbsp; the brain shrinks a little bit and you have&nbsp;&nbsp; crystallized intelligence. And in crystallized&nbsp; intelligence, what's going on is your brain,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're going from left brain to right brain more&nbsp; adeptly. You're there's a little bit less focus, a&nbsp;&nbsp; little more holistic thinking, systemic thinking,&nbsp; connecting the dots. So you can imagine that on&nbsp;&nbsp; a team in a you know when you have older brains&nbsp; connecting the dots thinking broadly peripherally&nbsp;&nbsp; younger team members being really fast and focused&nbsp; and being able to think linearly how to get things&nbsp;&nbsp; done.

That combination can either be successful&nbsp; or not. When it's successful it's brilliant. And&nbsp;&nbsp; I think Laura, you know, Laura Modi, um, Laura&nbsp; Hughes Modi, who was my director of hospitality,&nbsp;&nbsp; but also we worked in so many different capacities&nbsp; with her in the company. I loved working with her&nbsp;&nbsp; because her brain worked different than my brain.&nbsp; And um that's the opportunity is when you realize&nbsp;&nbsp; that diversity on a team whether you know there's&nbsp; lots of kinds of diversity but when it comes to&nbsp;&nbsp; uh brain diversity not just with neurodeiverse&nbsp; people but age diverse people you get a benefit&nbsp;&nbsp; an effective benefit that is not as uh noticeable&nbsp; quite frankly in some other diversities. Uh so I&nbsp;&nbsp; found that over and over was really helpful. Part&nbsp; of my job sometimes was to find the blind spot.&nbsp;&nbsp; You know, again, if you are very focused, you&nbsp; know, one of the things I said to Brian early on&nbsp;&nbsp; um was, you know, I I've seen the business&nbsp; plan now. I know the goals of how big we want&nbsp;&nbsp; to be in three years. This was very early in my&nbsp; tenure. I said, but what we really have done,&nbsp;&nbsp; everything we're trying to do is to like have no&nbsp; regulations and pay no occupancy tax.

Now, hotels&nbsp;&nbsp; pay a bed tax, occupancy tax. we're not paying it&nbsp; and we're trying to do everything we can not to&nbsp;&nbsp; pay it knowing that you know so for our listeners&nbsp; and viewers to know this this is something that&nbsp;&nbsp; a guest pays. It's not the host who pays it the&nbsp; guest pays it. It's part of the bill. If you go&nbsp;&nbsp; and stay in a hotel there's a big big tax part of&nbsp; the bill. But it made us more affordable by not&nbsp;&nbsp; having to pay tax have our guests pay taxes. Long&nbsp; story short is I said to Brian if we're as big as&nbsp;&nbsp; we're going to be three years from now I promise&nbsp; you we're going to be regulated. I promise you,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're gonna pay be paying occupancy taxes. So,&nbsp; let's take some proactive steps toward building a&nbsp;&nbsp; strategy for how we're going to be regulated. And&nbsp; that's that has consistently been Airbnb's biggest&nbsp;&nbsp; challenge is regulation in municipal markets&nbsp; all around the world. If we'd started a little&nbsp;&nbsp; earlier, maybe in New York, maybe in New York,&nbsp; it wouldn't have gotten to the point where it&nbsp;&nbsp; has been toxic in New York the whole for the last&nbsp; dozen years um ever since I was there.

And there's&nbsp;&nbsp; a few other markets in the in the world where it&nbsp; was like that. So, I would just say, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; um the value in in having some age diversity,&nbsp; even when you have an older person reporting&nbsp;&nbsp; to a younger person, is it can be collaborative.&nbsp; There was a guy named John Q. Smith, uh, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; an engineer who you I think you probably remember&nbsp; him, uh, uh, at at Airbnb. So, this is a guy who&nbsp;&nbsp; looked younger than he was and was he was&nbsp; a little bit nervous about PE like telling&nbsp;&nbsp; people his age. But the thing that was great about&nbsp; John is over time he was not necessarily going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be the best coder uh, at Airbnb. There was a&nbsp; whole new collection of coders coming in every,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, month. But he became a great manager.&nbsp; And the beautiful thing about moving from the,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, individual contributor to the the&nbsp; manager, the person who can actually bring&nbsp;&nbsp; out the best in a bunch of younger people who may&nbsp; be better technically than he or she is, but they&nbsp;&nbsp; know how to elevate talent. I call this invisible&nbsp; productivity. It's it's productivity in which you&nbsp;&nbsp; make everybody else around you better.

And that's&nbsp; something I tried to do with my teams at Airbnb.&nbsp;&nbsp; And ultimately I had six different teams, five&nbsp; hospitality and five other teams reporting to&nbsp;&nbsp; me. And I did my best to just be the kind of&nbsp; person who wasn't solving all the problems,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I was trying to elevate. There was a woman&nbsp; named Lisa Deost who is at at Airbnb and she one&nbsp;&nbsp; day I the HRE department was reporting to me at&nbsp; one point and she was running HR. She was 25 and&nbsp;&nbsp; had no background in HR at all. And one day she&nbsp; came into me and she just said, "Chip, you are my&nbsp;&nbsp; confidant." and Lisa Lisa has a French accent and&nbsp; you know fluent in French and she said so she said&nbsp;&nbsp; confidant in just the right way and and I said oh&nbsp; well thank you Lisa but I said to her you haven't&nbsp;&nbsp; given me any juicy details yet like a confidant&nbsp; is someone who has the secrets and and she said&nbsp;&nbsp; to me no in my in my part of France a confidant&nbsp; is somebody who gives you confidence and it was&nbsp;&nbsp; like oh well maybe that's what a mentor can be is&nbsp; a confidant someone who gives gives you confidence&nbsp;&nbsp; and helps by asking questions helps you as the&nbsp; younger mentee find your road map to success.&nbsp;&nbsp; So you're sharing a lot of really good examples&nbsp; of the value of older folks being within tech&nbsp;&nbsp; companies.

So let me just ask you this. How how&nbsp; real is agism in tech? And I ask because a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; people that are hiring are probably thinking,&nbsp; "No, no, I'm not biased. I'm going to hire&nbsp;&nbsp; the best person. If there's someone in their 50s,&nbsp; I'll hire them. No problem." Doesn't feel like it&nbsp;&nbsp; actually works out that way often. just how real&nbsp; of a problem is this? What do you see? Yeah, it,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, it's clearly a problem. Um, I'd say it's&nbsp; maybe a little bit less of a problem than it was a&nbsp;&nbsp; dozen years ago because I think a dozen years ago&nbsp; it was almost a blind spot. You know, in Airbnb,&nbsp;&nbsp; we had a group called Wisdom at Airbnb. It was an&nbsp; employee resource group for people 40 and older.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so there are lots of these kinds of groups&nbsp; that didn't exist a dozen years ago in all kinds&nbsp;&nbsp; of tech companies, which is good because it&nbsp; means that there's a there's a voice and a&nbsp;&nbsp; way to congregate with a bunch of people who&nbsp; are older. Ultimately, we had these senior we&nbsp;&nbsp; had these senior nomads come in and be like the&nbsp; voice of the customer for 10 weeks at Airbnb.

And&nbsp;&nbsp; it was the wisdom at Airbnb older employee group&nbsp; that really actually pushed for this with Brian.&nbsp;&nbsp; But the the challenge is in a world in which the&nbsp; smartest new people especially when it comes to&nbsp;&nbsp; technical skills and engineering are coming in&nbsp; with a whole new you know uh set of skills that&nbsp;&nbsp; an older person doesn't have. The the older person&nbsp; is both expensive uh and may be perceived as slow.&nbsp;&nbsp; So in the era of AI, it's a whole new ballgame and&nbsp; the question I think will be if what AI cannot do&nbsp;&nbsp; is the human wisdom piece, artificial intelligence&nbsp; and and human wisdom might be the balance beams&nbsp;&nbsp; here. Is it possible that older managers who&nbsp; have a little more emotional intelligence, a&nbsp;&nbsp; little more more pattern recognition, a little bit&nbsp; more wisdom um can be a value to a company? And so&nbsp;&nbsp; it's still the the jury still out. There's a New&nbsp; York Times article that just came out about the&nbsp;&nbsp; question of is AI going to wipe out older people's&nbsp; jobs or younger people's jobs? And I think the&nbsp;&nbsp; answer is both. But the the question is how much&nbsp; how bad is it for both of them and um I think that&nbsp;&nbsp; what I would say to an older person and when I say&nbsp; older I mean what 45 or older if you've done well&nbsp;&nbsp; financially and you're doing okay the question you&nbsp; might ask yourself is are you open as I ultimately&nbsp;&nbsp; was with Brian in my fourth year at Airbnb I took&nbsp; a substantial pay cut like I think I went to down&nbsp;&nbsp; to 40% or 50% time and my stock uh my you options&nbsp; were dropped to that level.

My salaries dropped to&nbsp;&nbsp; that level because I didn't want to work full-time&nbsp; anymore. And there are a lot of people who can be&nbsp;&nbsp; valuable in a company who have some institutional&nbsp; wisdom, some process knowledge of how to get&nbsp;&nbsp; things done in this organization. And in tech&nbsp; companies, that's really important. Um, Airbnb,&nbsp;&nbsp; one of the biggest challenges at Airbnb has&nbsp; always been how do I get done around here?&nbsp;&nbsp; Um, and process knowledge allows you to understand&nbsp; how do you how do you deal with an org chart and&nbsp;&nbsp; get things done partly because you understand&nbsp; the motivations of different groups and that&nbsp;&nbsp; is something you build over time. So, long story&nbsp; short is um I just think that uh you know older&nbsp;&nbsp; people might look at their workload and say I'm&nbsp; willing to take a 20% or a 40% pay cut to go to&nbsp;&nbsp; 80% or 60% time and the company is going to get&nbsp; their money's worth in that. That's a really&nbsp;&nbsp; interesting point that if you're older and you're&nbsp; maybe less connected to the most cutting edge ways&nbsp;&nbsp; of building and and coding, AI makes that a lot&nbsp; easier in many ways where you start to just talk&nbsp;&nbsp; to it.

You don't even need to understand what's&nbsp; happening underneath. Yeah. So, there's a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; listeners who are older in tech. There's a lot of&nbsp; listeners who are approaching midlife, let's say,&nbsp;&nbsp; worried about what happens to their career. When&nbsp; you look at people you've worked with and had at&nbsp;&nbsp; your academy, which we'll talk about, who continue&nbsp; to thrive and continue to have a really healthy&nbsp;&nbsp; career in tech, what do they do differently? What&nbsp; do they do? What what do they have in common that&nbsp;&nbsp; other folks you think should work on and focus&nbsp; on? I think this this idea of being a mentor,&nbsp;&nbsp; a mentor and an intern, this just the voracious&nbsp; appetite for curiosity. When I talk to someone&nbsp;&nbsp; who's in midlife and wants to be in the tech world&nbsp; or already is, the thing I say is show up with&nbsp;&nbsp; curiosity and a passionate engagement for what&nbsp; you do. And people won't necessarily notice your&nbsp;&nbsp; wrinkles as much as they'll notice your energy.&nbsp; And energy has two parts to it. Uh energy is&nbsp;&nbsp; they notice that you are not just sort of resting&nbsp; on your laurels. You are you have like physical&nbsp;&nbsp; you know energy in how you do your job.

And when&nbsp; people are like that, they are sort of timeless.&nbsp;&nbsp; They are a they're age fluid, as I say. Um, we&nbsp; talk about gender fluidity. Well, there could be&nbsp;&nbsp; age fluidity. They they don't they're defined by&nbsp; their age. But the other part of energies that's&nbsp;&nbsp; important is being positive. You know, that's&nbsp; sort of more energetic, like a little bit more&nbsp;&nbsp; California energetic. There's a sense of like when&nbsp; someone's got good energy, you're drawn to them.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, it's about showing up with the kind of energy&nbsp; of someone 10 or 20 years younger than you and&nbsp;&nbsp; then showing up with positive energy. And I think&nbsp; one of the things that I would say I did well at&nbsp;&nbsp; I mean there's lots of things I didn't do well at&nbsp; Airbnb, but in terms of what I did well is I was&nbsp;&nbsp; very approachable. And over the course of time,&nbsp; the number of mentees I had, the number of people&nbsp;&nbsp; who just wanted to have coffee with me or tea,&nbsp; the number of people who just said, "Thank you for&nbsp;&nbsp; being in that meeting, you just sort of gave it&nbsp; a positive feeling was really important." and and&nbsp;&nbsp; um so my energy both the positive energy part and&nbsp; then also the fact that yeah I I could work 60&nbsp;&nbsp; and 70 hours a week and I could travel around&nbsp; the world as the as the secretary of state of&nbsp;&nbsp; the company which is what Brian called me a couple&nbsp; times on the stage.

The fact that I could do that&nbsp;&nbsp; meant that no one was looking at me and saying&nbsp; let's get rid of the old fogy. Uh well maybe some&nbsp;&nbsp; people were but I wasn't aware of them. So, I just&nbsp; think show up with that passionate engagement,&nbsp;&nbsp; that curiosity, that energy, the ability to be&nbsp; both the learner and the teacher with respect&nbsp;&nbsp; for people that younger than you, and you're going&nbsp; to probably do pretty well. That is really great&nbsp;&nbsp; advice. Today's episode is brought to you by KOD.&nbsp; I personally use KOD every single day to manage&nbsp;&nbsp; my podcast and also to manage my community. It's&nbsp; where I put the questions that I plan to ask every&nbsp;&nbsp; guest that's coming on the podcast. It's where I&nbsp; put my community resources. It's how I manage my&nbsp;&nbsp; workflows. Here's how KOD can help you. Imagine&nbsp; starting a project at work and your vision is&nbsp;&nbsp; clear. You know exactly who's doing what and where&nbsp; to find the data that you need to do your part.&nbsp;&nbsp; In fact, you don't have to waste time searching&nbsp; for anything because everything your team needs&nbsp;&nbsp; from project trackers and OKRs to documents and&nbsp; spreadsheets lives in one tab all in KOD.

With&nbsp;&nbsp; KOD's collaborative all-in-one workspace, you&nbsp; get the flexibility of docs, the structure of&nbsp;&nbsp; spreadsheets, the power of applications, and the&nbsp; intelligence of AI, all in one easy to organize&nbsp;&nbsp; tab. Like I mentioned earlier, I use KOD every&nbsp; single day, and more than 50,000 teams trust KOD&nbsp;&nbsp; to keep them more aligned and focused. If you're&nbsp; a startup team looking to increase alignment and&nbsp;&nbsp; agility, KOD can help you move from planning to&nbsp; execution in record time. To try it for yourself,&nbsp;&nbsp; go to kod.io/lenny. io/lenny today and get&nbsp; 6 months free of the team plan for startups.&nbsp;&nbsp; That's cooda.io/lenny to get started for free and&nbsp; get six months of the team plan. kod.io/lenny.&nbsp;&nbsp; Interestingly, curiosity comes up a lot when&nbsp; I ask AI forward people what are they focusing&nbsp;&nbsp; on helping their kids learn most. Curiosity is the&nbsp; most common way to describe. So, at every stage of&nbsp;&nbsp; life, curiosity is uh some to cultivate. I want to&nbsp; go to the flip side of companies looking to hire.&nbsp;&nbsp; Feels like there's this uh untapped supply of&nbsp; awesome people that companies with agism and tech&nbsp;&nbsp; uh aren't finding and hiring. So to help hiring&nbsp; managers and companies take advantage of this,&nbsp;&nbsp; what's something you suggest they do?

How do they&nbsp; shift their mindset or maybe shift the way they&nbsp;&nbsp; they hire that might help them find these people?&nbsp; I think we're moving into there's a there's a book&nbsp;&nbsp; that David Epste wrote called range and the whole&nbsp; premise of range is that we are moving out of the&nbsp;&nbsp; era of the specialists and into the era of the&nbsp; generalists and I think AI is just accelerating&nbsp;&nbsp; this um as we are more reliant upon AI and AI&nbsp; can can be exceptional at technical skills and&nbsp;&nbsp; solutions really expeditiously. I think&nbsp; generalists, people who can think broadly&nbsp;&nbsp; become all the more important. And I think that&nbsp; what I would say to someone in HR or recruiting,&nbsp;&nbsp; uh, is yet beyond what I already said before&nbsp; is is the person passionate? Are they curious?&nbsp;&nbsp; Are they a learner? Um, do they have good energy?&nbsp; But I would also say, are they a generalist when&nbsp;&nbsp; they're a problem solver? because I actually think&nbsp; that's going to be an increasingly important part&nbsp;&nbsp; of how effective companies think broadly. So I&nbsp; think that's a key one. I think also this idea of&nbsp;&nbsp; how do you create intergenerational collaboration&nbsp; in the form of mutual mentorships.

Um, one of the&nbsp;&nbsp; things I I I loved at Airbnb with there were a&nbsp; few people I did this with where I had something&nbsp;&nbsp; to teach them and they had something to teach me.&nbsp; So, um, good example, my iPhone. So, there's 97%&nbsp;&nbsp; of the utility of my iPhone that I probably don't&nbsp; use and don't know how to use. This is, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; back in, let's say, 2013, 2014. And so there&nbsp; were people in who knew iPhone or Google suites&nbsp;&nbsp; back then. I'd never used a Google doc back then&nbsp; when I joined Airbnb. So there were people who&nbsp;&nbsp; could teach me something technical and then they&nbsp; wanted to learn something from me which would be&nbsp;&nbsp; like how do you run a great meeting um or how&nbsp; do you give a great employee review? you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; there are a lot of managers who've never been&nbsp; a manager before and and so how do you disperse&nbsp;&nbsp; people like me in the organization so that you&nbsp; don't you know there's usually not enough time&nbsp;&nbsp; for these young managers to come to some training&nbsp; session on how to do a good you know employee&nbsp;&nbsp; review. So you sort of have to do it out there&nbsp; in the field.

It's like apprenticeship. You know,&nbsp;&nbsp; back in the trades, you are you're an electrician&nbsp; apprentice. Not because you're watching, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; some video on it. You're out there in the field&nbsp; doing it. And and that's a huge value in a younger&nbsp;&nbsp; company when you have some older people who&nbsp; have not been vested with the responsibility&nbsp;&nbsp; of managing those younger people because they may&nbsp; have they may actually be reporting to someone&nbsp;&nbsp; younger than them, but they're there to actually&nbsp; be support. And um in some ways I think that was&nbsp;&nbsp; part of the unexpected value that I was able to&nbsp; offer to Airbnb and to Brian specifically because&nbsp;&nbsp; there are a ton of people in Airbnb who were&nbsp; not even in my departments who would come to me&nbsp;&nbsp; and say I'm having a problem. How do I solve this?&nbsp; Can we spend lunch together? And you know I almost&nbsp;&nbsp; always said yes. I think the reason people did&nbsp; that in many ways is you just have a very unique&nbsp;&nbsp; aura of wisdom and it's hard to replicate that&nbsp; chip. Yeah. I mean Yes. And it all comes back&nbsp;&nbsp; to the curiosity. If I was just the older elder&nbsp; dispensing wisdom, people would have gotten bored&nbsp;&nbsp; very quickly.

And I think the fact Yeah. Yeah.&nbsp; I mean, I was on the board of Burning Man. Oh,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's cool. And so there was a I I I I show up&nbsp; as someone who feels younger than I am. I mean,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm turning 65 this year. So the bottom line is I&nbsp; think people lost track of my age partly because I&nbsp;&nbsp; lost track of my age. That's such a good such good&nbsp; advice. So on the front end uh to be successful&nbsp;&nbsp; as a person kind of getting older in tech is&nbsp; curiosity, positive energy. the way you tal talked&nbsp;&nbsp; about it passionate passionate uh engagement is&nbsp; that the term? Yep. And then on the other side&nbsp;&nbsp; is uh hired generalist. This actually comes up a&nbsp; lot in in the AI conversation just exactly as you&nbsp;&nbsp; said the power of generalist reminds me I'm I'm&nbsp; going to this gym now and the lady there is just&nbsp;&nbsp; like I love AI so much because I'm just such a big&nbsp; picture person and I can so bad at just getting&nbsp;&nbsp; thinking about the details and AI solves all that&nbsp; for me. It's like here here's what I want to do.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll do this, move my house to here, here.

And&nbsp; it's like, here's what you need to do. Step one,&nbsp;&nbsp; two, three, four, five. It is remarkable. I&nbsp; mean, you know, since the time I've known you,&nbsp;&nbsp; how fast it has become dominant in our lives. Uh,&nbsp; but yeah, I think one of the last thing I'd say&nbsp;&nbsp; is look, I'm privileged. So, for those of you who&nbsp; are listening or watching this and you're saying,&nbsp;&nbsp; well, you know, Chip, you were 52 years old and&nbsp; they came to you. Like, that doesn't happen to&nbsp;&nbsp; me. I'm not in that position. The thing I would&nbsp; say is you're right. So I but I could have been&nbsp;&nbsp; plucked and brought in and partly as as Brian's&nbsp; boy, people would have like rejected me because&nbsp;&nbsp; if I didn't show up the right way, it wouldn't&nbsp; have worked well. Uh and there are lots of people&nbsp;&nbsp; who Brian brought into the company who didn't work&nbsp; well. So I think I think the key is how do you get&nbsp;&nbsp; the foot in the door? And at the end of the day um&nbsp; you know those second and third order of you know&nbsp;&nbsp; uh degrees of separation um in terms of networking&nbsp; is are still essential.

But the most important&nbsp;&nbsp; thing is to be able to articulate what you have&nbsp; accomplished in a new way that a recruiter says&nbsp;&nbsp; wow. And so I I really tell people like I&nbsp; I would love to see a resume. First of all,&nbsp;&nbsp; the question that uh I think it it was who was&nbsp; someone asked it. I don't remember if it's Cheryl&nbsp;&nbsp; Stanber or someone else asked her who said like&nbsp; what's the biggest problem you're dealing with&nbsp;&nbsp; here and how can I help you? Like that's a great&nbsp; that's a great line. Number two is uh what I love&nbsp;&nbsp; to see is not so much what roles you've had,&nbsp; what bullet points do you have of your like&nbsp;&nbsp; things you've learned. Give me in a paragraph a&nbsp; a a thorny problem you faced. Um what what was&nbsp;&nbsp; the problem and how you got how you what skills&nbsp; you used to actually accomplish it and what was&nbsp;&nbsp; the result of that. I would love to see a resume&nbsp; like that. And the older you are, the more you&nbsp;&nbsp; can actually have a resume like that. And then you&nbsp; can use that as the conversation piece when you're&nbsp;&nbsp; doing interview your interviews.

So, I love that.&nbsp; I love that we're getting into interview advice&nbsp;&nbsp; and resume advice. Yes. Um, speaking of throwing&nbsp; problems and also uh why Brian decided to reach&nbsp;&nbsp; out to you, I want to go back to the beginning&nbsp; of your career. Yes. So, you're good at this,&nbsp;&nbsp; by the way. You're good at this. was thinking&nbsp; ahead. Okay, so you're in business school. You&nbsp;&nbsp; left business school. You decid you're like maybe&nbsp; I should start a hotel. Uh something that rarely&nbsp;&nbsp; works out usually probably leads to a lot of&nbsp; money lost and a lot of frustration and just&nbsp;&nbsp; like okay what have I done with my life worked&nbsp; out for you? Ended up building the second largest&nbsp;&nbsp; boutique hotel chain in the world. Uh beloved uh&nbsp; I I I loved every single experience I've had at&nbsp;&nbsp; when you sold it. I was like that is so sad. Talk&nbsp; about just that that story. Uh, I know this could&nbsp;&nbsp; go on for hours, but what's the Yeah, I'll be I'll&nbsp; be brief. Yeah. 26 years old, couple years out of&nbsp;&nbsp; Stanford Business School, working for commercial&nbsp; real estate developer. I was bored silly. I wanted&nbsp;&nbsp; to do something more creative.

Bill Graham,&nbsp; famous concert promoter, said to me, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; because I gotten to know him, what San Francisco&nbsp; really needs is a rock and roll hotel. So, I&nbsp;&nbsp; decided to start looking to to find a broken down&nbsp; motel hotel that I could turn into a rock and roll&nbsp;&nbsp; hotel. and I found something in the Tenderloin uh&nbsp; and uh and turned it into the Phoenix which became&nbsp;&nbsp; a famous rock and roll hotel that I have owned&nbsp; for 39 years now. Um so long story short is that&nbsp;&nbsp; was how I started in the company and we grew to 52&nbsp; hotels around California became the second largest&nbsp;&nbsp; as you said in the in the world uh in terms of the&nbsp; number of hotels boutique hotels that we operated&nbsp;&nbsp; and I loved it till I hated it in my late 40s.&nbsp; I hated it. Didn't want to do it anymore. I was,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, the Great Recession came along and it&nbsp; was just kicking my ass. And I really went through&nbsp;&nbsp; a bit of a what I now call a midlife cryis, uh,&nbsp; but a midlife crisis, um, where I just wanted to&nbsp;&nbsp; change everything. And, um, I got through it.

Uh,&nbsp; I had an NDE, had a near-death experience where I&nbsp;&nbsp; had an allergic reaction to an antibiotic&nbsp; and I died. And from that point forward,&nbsp;&nbsp; I realized every day is a a gift and a bonus.&nbsp; and um uh you know I decided to sell my company&nbsp;&nbsp; at the bottom of the great recession. So that's&nbsp; so that was really how I created this space in&nbsp;&nbsp; my life to be able to join Airbnb. Well, let's&nbsp; back up a little bit. This near-death experience&nbsp;&nbsp; uh share more there what happened there. Yeah,&nbsp; I was uh so I write books. have written seven&nbsp;&nbsp; or eight books and I had written a book called&nbsp; Peak uh how great companies get their mojo from&nbsp;&nbsp; Maslo and it was a book that Brian really liked&nbsp; and part of the reason he he wanted to reach out&nbsp;&nbsp; to me. Um I was on a book tour. I had a broken&nbsp; ankle. Uh broke my ankle at a bachelor party&nbsp;&nbsp; uh playing baseball and um I ended up with a cut&nbsp; on my leg and um the cut on my leg had fertilizer&nbsp;&nbsp; in it and went septic and so I was on a very&nbsp; strong antibiotic and I died.

I went flatline&nbsp;&nbsp; from the allergic reaction to the antibiotic and&nbsp; so I saw you know I it happened nine times over 90&nbsp;&nbsp; minutes. I kept dying, kept flatlining and yeah,&nbsp; ended up in the hospital for a couple three days&nbsp;&nbsp; and they finally said, "Listen, it's an allergic&nbsp; reaction. We believe they thought it was I thought&nbsp;&nbsp; they thought it was a heart attack. Thought a&nbsp; bunch of stuff, stroke, etc." No, it was the&nbsp;&nbsp; allergic reaction. So, but you know, I saw birds.&nbsp; I mean, I saw all this beautiful stuff. I We don't&nbsp;&nbsp; have time to go into it. What? I did. You want to&nbsp; hear this? Yeah. No, I saw this beautiful stuff.&nbsp;&nbsp; the the best I think there's a hotel in San&nbsp; Francisco called the Vitali that I built&nbsp;&nbsp; um across the street from the ferry building and&nbsp; it's still there but it's no longer called the&nbsp;&nbsp; Vitali. Um in that hotel there were these slippers&nbsp; in every guest room. One slipper said slow,&nbsp;&nbsp; the other slipper said down. Um, and so I was&nbsp; wearing these slippers in my flatline thing, uh,&nbsp;&nbsp; flying in in the air in a 40 foot tall living room&nbsp; in the Alps, surrounded by birds that were twer&nbsp;&nbsp; tweeting and and chirping at me.

And I understood&nbsp; bird talk. I understand I understood exactly what&nbsp;&nbsp; they were saying. And they kept telling me, "If&nbsp; you slow down, you will see beauty and you will&nbsp;&nbsp; see awe." And there was a bunch of other things,&nbsp; but let me just limit it to that and just say,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then the birds would like say, "It's time to&nbsp; go." And the birds would go out the big window,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, into the mountains, and I would try&nbsp; to follow them. And right as I would get to the&nbsp;&nbsp; window, all of a sudden, I'd come back to life.&nbsp; Holy Uh, I love that this was uh like&nbsp;&nbsp; there was a message inside of this experience.&nbsp; I don't know how many people experienced that.&nbsp;&nbsp; Clearly, this led to a big life change. And it's&nbsp; interesting that a lot of times you need something&nbsp;&nbsp; like that. Like you've been doing this for how&nbsp; many years at that point running? Uh, at that&nbsp;&nbsp; point I've been running for 22 years and 22 years.&nbsp; And it's interesting that you need something like&nbsp;&nbsp; that a lot of times otherwise it just momentum&nbsp; just keeps carrying you forward. Yep. within&nbsp;&nbsp; two years I'd sold it and you know I had had&nbsp; the chance to move on.

So with building Juvary&nbsp;&nbsp; something you've written about a number of times&nbsp; is just the way you built it as a really unique&nbsp;&nbsp; approach to building a business. Specifically&nbsp; there's a huge focus on culture which also&nbsp;&nbsp; came out at Airbnb. Talk about just why you see&nbsp; culture as such an important part of how you build&nbsp;&nbsp; a business like tangibly because a lot of people&nbsp; talk about culture warm fuzzy stuff but you think&nbsp;&nbsp; about it very tangibly. Culture is what happens&nbsp; around here when the boss is not around. Um and&nbsp;&nbsp; and the more distributed a company, the more&nbsp; culture is important because the boss is around&nbsp;&nbsp; in a traditional bricks and mortar workplace&nbsp; where everybody shows up at 8 and leaves at 6&nbsp;&nbsp; and we all see each other. But uh at in my company&nbsp; in Aviv, we had 52 hotels and 25 restaurants and&nbsp;&nbsp; four spas and it was distributed. So I couldn't&nbsp; be in all those places all the time. And same&nbsp;&nbsp; similarly with Airbnb. I mean Airbnb had offices&nbsp; around the world and was it was a global company.&nbsp;&nbsp; So the more distributed you are, of course, in the&nbsp; remote work world we live in, the more culture is&nbsp;&nbsp; important and more difficult because the when&nbsp; you're remote, you know, there's these few&nbsp;&nbsp; cues you have about how we do things around here&nbsp; and they're usually in a digital virtual format,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is why, you know, it's all the more&nbsp; important for you to have in-person gatherings&nbsp;&nbsp; of a team more often if you are virtual.

So at the&nbsp; end of the day, the reason culture is important is&nbsp;&nbsp; because it actually helps it helps guide people&nbsp; in terms of making decisions, but it's also a&nbsp;&nbsp; magnet for the right kind of people. So Oracle&nbsp; has a different, you know, culture than Apple,&nbsp;&nbsp; which has a different culture than Facebook. And&nbsp; so you can choose the place you're going to work&nbsp;&nbsp; based upon the culture. And there are people who&nbsp; can be very good at what they do, but if they're&nbsp;&nbsp; in the wrong culture, they're in the wrong kind&nbsp; of environment and they're not willing to shift&nbsp;&nbsp; to fit that culture. And we saw it at Airbnb all&nbsp; over and over again. Uh in in fact, Airbnb saw it,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think, when with Amazon people. Um Apple&nbsp; people have resonated pretty well at at at&nbsp;&nbsp; Airbnb. Amazon people less so. And those are two&nbsp; different cultures, Amazon and and Apple. And that&nbsp;&nbsp; therefore understanding a culture before you even&nbsp; actually take the job is one of the more important&nbsp;&nbsp; decisions you need to make is like is this&nbsp; culture a culture that I can live with? Um and&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe influence. Um there's language about culture&nbsp; fit.

I like to say culture ad because culture fit&nbsp;&nbsp; to me means can actually be quite negative toward&nbsp; somebody who is the aberration. Um you have to fit&nbsp;&nbsp; in and especially if this is like a demographic&nbsp; thing, a person of color, a gay person, a you&nbsp;&nbsp; know a person in a wheelchair. So you have to fit&nbsp; in. But a culture ad suggests that actually having&nbsp;&nbsp; some diversity on the team is helpful because it&nbsp; actually adds to the culture. But that's still&nbsp;&nbsp; h you still have to be able to get along in that&nbsp; culture. So culture is an intangible. That's the&nbsp;&nbsp; problem with it is it's hard to measure but you&nbsp; see its value and you understand whether it's&nbsp;&nbsp; working based upon p you know employee pulse&nbsp; reports and things like that. You talk about&nbsp;&nbsp; having to understand a culture is such a key part&nbsp; of having success at a company. Do you have any&nbsp;&nbsp; advice for just how to understand that culture&nbsp; for someone interviewing? I don't know like you&nbsp;&nbsp; know you came in you work part-time it's easier&nbsp; to experience it all any tips there for like&nbsp;&nbsp; okay this is for me this not for me when you're&nbsp; interviewing you're you're also interviewing them&nbsp;&nbsp; when you're interviewing it's not about you having&nbsp; to prove yourself it's also for them to actually&nbsp;&nbsp; prove themselves as a company and also try to&nbsp; understand if there is um some alignment in the&nbsp;&nbsp; company and so the kind of questions I would&nbsp; ask as someone who's being interviewed would&nbsp;&nbsp; be what are three to five adjectives that define&nbsp; this culture.

What's the biggest problem in this&nbsp;&nbsp; culture in terms of something that's just endemic&nbsp; or like baked in across the organization and is it&nbsp;&nbsp; ever going to get fixed and how could I come in&nbsp; and maybe help that? Uh which frankly at a very&nbsp;&nbsp; junior level you're not going to be able to help&nbsp; it. Uh except for in very minor ways. If you're&nbsp;&nbsp; a senior person you might be able to help it. Um,&nbsp; so those are those are the kind of questions I'd&nbsp;&nbsp; want to know. And frankly, if I'm asking that same&nbsp; question about what are the adjectives to multiple&nbsp;&nbsp; people, am I hearing the same thing over and&nbsp; over again? Um, and if I'm not, is that because&nbsp;&nbsp; there's not alignment, is that because different&nbsp; departments have different flavors? Um, because&nbsp;&nbsp; you can have a culture within a department that's&nbsp; very different than the overall corporate culture.&nbsp;&nbsp; The corporate culture certainly has an enormous&nbsp; oppressive uh influence, but uh you know you can&nbsp;&nbsp; you can you can be in a culture uh a really great&nbsp; culture of a team or a department in an overall&nbsp;&nbsp; company culture that's not good. In the long run,&nbsp; that oppressive company culture is either going to&nbsp;&nbsp; have to evolve or your department may be you may&nbsp; lose people.

When I reflect back on one of the on&nbsp;&nbsp; the impact you had at Airbnb, one of the funny&nbsp; uh things I think about is uh triangles showing&nbsp;&nbsp; up a lot on decks uh and specifically rooted in&nbsp; Maslo's hierarchy. Just like everything's this&nbsp;&nbsp; Maslo hierarchy metaphor. True. Um, and this one&nbsp; uh I don't know specific piece of this is you have&nbsp;&nbsp; this kind of model you think about for how to help&nbsp; employees be successful at a company. It's kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; rooted in your peak book uh philosophy. Maybe just&nbsp; talk about that and then if there's anything else&nbsp;&nbsp; you want to expand on with this power of thinking&nbsp; through the Masow hierarchy. So you know Maslo's&nbsp;&nbsp; hierarchy basically five levels. Later in life he&nbsp; had a seven and an eight level model. But you know&nbsp;&nbsp; uh at the base is you know physical uh you know&nbsp; the kind of physical water, food, air and you move&nbsp;&nbsp; up to self-actualization at the top. Um so to use&nbsp; this model as a hierarchy of needs for employees,&nbsp;&nbsp; customers and investors is what the peak model&nbsp; is about. uh the the you know the peak uh my book&nbsp;&nbsp; um the employee model is really simple.

It's money&nbsp; or compensation at the base um recognition in the&nbsp;&nbsp; middle and meaning at the top. Now there are some&nbsp; industries and some kinds of jobs in which money&nbsp;&nbsp; is 90% of the pyramid. So just because it's at&nbsp; the base doesn't mean it's not the dominant part&nbsp;&nbsp; of the pyramid. But the differentiation often is&nbsp; in recognition and meaning in nonprofits. It's&nbsp;&nbsp; usually the money piece of it's rather thin and&nbsp; the recognition's this and meaning is huge. So I&nbsp;&nbsp; so understanding how do you create an organization&nbsp; and and I gave a TED talk in 2010 about this topic&nbsp;&nbsp; as well. Um how do you create a how do you&nbsp; measure the intangibles uh of meaning and how&nbsp;&nbsp; do you create an environment where people feel a&nbsp; sense of meaning? Um the customer pyramid briefly,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll just say that one is meeting expectations&nbsp; is the base, meeting desires is in the middle&nbsp;&nbsp; and then meeting unrecognized needs. And I think&nbsp; one of the things that we did at Airbnb about a&nbsp;&nbsp; year after I joined and when Jonathan Mildenhal&nbsp; was joining is we really tried to ask ourselves,&nbsp;&nbsp; are we in the home sharing business or are we&nbsp; in some kind of business that is even bigger and&nbsp;&nbsp; broader than that?

And ultimately we we came up&nbsp; with the idea that we were in the belong anywhere&nbsp;&nbsp; business. Airbnb was not in home sharing. We&nbsp; were in belonging anywhere. So once you have that&nbsp;&nbsp; uh down that was sort of the unrecognized need&nbsp; at the top of the pyramid. Then that becomes an&nbsp;&nbsp; organizing principle for how do you teach your&nbsp; hosts to create a sense of belonging? um how do&nbsp;&nbsp; our how does our marketing and advertising play up&nbsp; the belonging piece especially and the everywhere&nbsp;&nbsp; piece because hotels are not everywhere but&nbsp; homes are and so I would just say that you&nbsp;&nbsp; know this model the idea of hierarchies is I&nbsp; think very helpful um and uh yeah my book peak&nbsp;&nbsp; is has been out for 18 years but I still am asked&nbsp; to give 20 or 30 speeches a year on it oh man this&nbsp;&nbsp; uh this pyramid of comp recognition meaning is&nbsp; really interesting Especially these days because&nbsp;&nbsp; uh like with all this AI uh researcher poaching,&nbsp; there's all this talk of just like it will people&nbsp;&nbsp; just go work wherever the you know they get they&nbsp; get the most money or is there a mission and and&nbsp;&nbsp; meaning to the work they're doing that will keep&nbsp; them not taking a hundred million dollar offer&nbsp;&nbsp; and seems to be happening a lot of cases which&nbsp; shows you the power of meaning.

Yeah. I mean,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you know you're working for a toxic company,&nbsp; at some point your conscience kicks in. Whether&nbsp;&nbsp; it's toxic in terms of the purpose of the company,&nbsp; toxic in terms of the leadership or the culture.&nbsp;&nbsp; Um, yeah. Life is too short. Okay. So, you've had&nbsp; two major shifts in your career. You started the&nbsp;&nbsp; hotel chain, you went to then you went to Airbnb.&nbsp; Most recently, the Airbnb experience, I imagine,&nbsp;&nbsp; led you to starting something in the called&nbsp; the Modern Elder Academy. talk about what is&nbsp;&nbsp; the modern elder academy. Yeah. What is going&nbsp; on with that modern elder academy? The modern&nbsp;&nbsp; elder academy. So there was a couple times where&nbsp; I was called the modern elder at Airbnb. And then&nbsp;&nbsp; I was told that a modern elder is someone who's as&nbsp; curious as they are wise. So uh Jonathan Mildenhal&nbsp;&nbsp; who was the chief marketing officer at at Airbnb&nbsp; used to call me the modern elder as well. And when&nbsp;&nbsp; he and he said like if you ever create a school&nbsp; you you know modern modern elder would be a good&nbsp;&nbsp; name. And so we talked about it and next thing&nbsp; I knew I was like saying okay this is called the&nbsp;&nbsp; modern elder academy.

We now call it MEA because&nbsp; elder is a fraught word on some level. It makes&nbsp;&nbsp; you sound elderly. But um what I really wanted to&nbsp; create was a place where people could come and do&nbsp;&nbsp; a workshop. you you know they're fiveday workshops&nbsp; um in Baja on the beach or in Santa Fe on a big&nbsp;&nbsp; four square mile uh horse ranch and reimagine and&nbsp; repurpose yourself and navigate transitions. We&nbsp;&nbsp; go through so many transitions in the middle of&nbsp; our life. Let's say between I I define midlife&nbsp;&nbsp; as 35 to 75 guys. So like this is it's a very&nbsp; it's a very long life stage. So we go through&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of transitions. We are constantly evolving&nbsp; our purpose. We're building our wisdom. You know,&nbsp;&nbsp; we have knowledge management tools out there, but&nbsp; where are the wisdom management tools? Where are&nbsp;&nbsp; the tools that help us to get wiser over time?&nbsp; And then we need to reframe our relationship with&nbsp;&nbsp; getting older because Becca Levy has shown at Yale&nbsp; that when you shift your mindset on aging from a&nbsp;&nbsp; negative to a positive, you get seven and a half&nbsp; years of additional life, which is more life than&nbsp;&nbsp; any other biohack that's being done right now.&nbsp; So that's what we do.

and we have 7,000 grads&nbsp;&nbsp; from 60 countries and 56 regional chapters around&nbsp; the world. So, it's a bit of a movement. And um I&nbsp;&nbsp; teach I I teach some of the workshops and we have&nbsp; all kinds of famous people who come and teach. And&nbsp;&nbsp; for me, creating the world's first midlife wisdom&nbsp; school just feels like the the natural next thing&nbsp;&nbsp; for me to do. I I love hospitality so it's a&nbsp; very upscale kind of experience, but we have&nbsp;&nbsp; scholarships. I love um retreat centers. I was on&nbsp; the board of the Eselin Institute in Big Surf for&nbsp;&nbsp; 10 years. I love wellness. I've owned the Kabuki&nbsp; Springs and Spa for 28 years um which is the&nbsp;&nbsp; largest spa in San Francisco. And I love education&nbsp; and my book wisdom at work the making of a modern&nbsp;&nbsp; elder gave me a curriculum in which we've expanded&nbsp; quite a bit with uh Harvard, Yale, Stanford and UC&nbsp;&nbsp; Berkeley professors helping us a great greater&nbsp; curriculum around midlife. Um and so that's how&nbsp;&nbsp; MEA came about. Uh to your point I forget who said&nbsp; I think you said Jonathan has said this was the&nbsp;&nbsp; natural next step for you.

I completely agree.&nbsp; It's like looking back this is the obvious thing&nbsp;&nbsp; you should be doing right now. Yeah. Uh, also I'm&nbsp; learning more things about you. I didn't know you&nbsp;&nbsp; were involved with the Kabuki Spa. I think Esel&nbsp; and I knew just keep getting more interested.&nbsp;&nbsp; Thank you. There's a couple threads here I want&nbsp; to actually follow. So this point you made about&nbsp;&nbsp; shifting your mindset to aging is a positive&nbsp; thing. Makes you helps you live longer. That's&nbsp;&nbsp; such a powerful point. Can you just speak more&nbsp; to that? Just what does that look like? Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a couple there's lots of data points.&nbsp; I'm just I'll talk about two. One is this Becca&nbsp;&nbsp; Levy study which has been going on for 15 to 20&nbsp; years. If you sort of take buy into the agism of&nbsp;&nbsp; American society or Hallmark cards when you get a&nbsp; a a card at age 40, 50 or beyond, there's a belief&nbsp;&nbsp; that life gets worse as you get older. And um and&nbsp; if you can survive your midlife crisis, all you&nbsp;&nbsp; have to look forward to is disease, decrepitude,&nbsp; and death. And the bottom line is uh you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a lot of things that get better with age.&nbsp; I wrote a book called Learning to Love Midlife.&nbsp;&nbsp; The subtitle says it all.

12 reasons why life gets&nbsp; better with age. And what I really wanted to do&nbsp;&nbsp; with that book, which is really it it summarizes&nbsp; the MEA curriculum. I wanted to write a book that&nbsp;&nbsp; sort of helped people to see the upside of aging,&nbsp; the unexpected pleasures of aging. Uh so they had&nbsp;&nbsp; a pro-aging, not just an anti-aging point of view.&nbsp; Because when you actually have a pro-agging point&nbsp;&nbsp; of view, and you see the upside of aging, you take&nbsp; better care of yourself, both your mind and your&nbsp;&nbsp; body, you actually are willing to learn and try&nbsp; new things. One of my favorite MEA questions is 10&nbsp;&nbsp; years from now, what will you regret if you don't&nbsp; learn it or do it now? It's a powerful question,&nbsp;&nbsp; really important question as we get older. When&nbsp; you're young, you know, you've got all, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; all of your life left ahead of you. But when&nbsp; I moved to Baja part-time in Mexico at age 56,&nbsp;&nbsp; um I had a mindset which was I'm too old to learn&nbsp; Spanish. I'm too old to learn to surf. But when I&nbsp;&nbsp; said 10 years from now, what will I regret if I&nbsp; don't learn it or do it now?

And I said, well,&nbsp;&nbsp; 10 years from now, I might still be living in&nbsp; Baja, like I should learn this. I should learn&nbsp;&nbsp; Spanish. I should learn how to surf because we're&nbsp; right next to a surf break. And so I did. Um,&nbsp;&nbsp; so what I believe is that anticipated regret&nbsp; is a form of wisdom. And so and it's a catalyst&nbsp;&nbsp; for taking action. So that's one data point. The&nbsp; other data point is something called the U curve&nbsp;&nbsp; of happiness and it's been around for 20 years and&nbsp; it shows the following. It has changed in the last&nbsp;&nbsp; couple years because young adults are h unhappy&nbsp; like never before. So a 20 or a 22 year old really&nbsp;&nbsp; unhappy, 24y old really unhappy. But historically&nbsp; the way it was is you were happy from 18 to 23 or&nbsp;&nbsp; 24 and then around 23 24 you start to see a long&nbsp; slow decline in life satisfaction that actually&nbsp;&nbsp; uh bottoms out between 45 and 50. I'm sorry&nbsp; to tell you that Lenny since you're 44. Um&nbsp;&nbsp; but your mileage may vary. So you're saying&nbsp; I'm the least happy I'll ever be. Like that's&nbsp;&nbsp; only upside. That's great. Yeah. Well, here's&nbsp; the part that's weird is that when before this&nbsp;&nbsp; re research was done, and it's global research&nbsp; across all demographics, what they found was&nbsp;&nbsp; uh starting around age 50 or 52, you get happier.&nbsp; So that you're happier in your 50s than your 40s,&nbsp;&nbsp; 60s 50s, 70s happier than 60s, and women&nbsp; in their 80s happier than 70s.

So, wow.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it's partly because we are in around 45 to&nbsp; 50 doing this thing called the um the midlife&nbsp;&nbsp; unraveling. What Bnee Brown calls the midlife&nbsp; unraveling. You're unraveling your expectations,&nbsp;&nbsp; your uh what you define as success. Uh your&nbsp; definition of you what a beautiful body looks like&nbsp;&nbsp; and you get some you're liberated into freedom in&nbsp; your 50s and beyond. And uh I can say that yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm happier today at 64 than I was at 47 when I&nbsp; was going through my flatline experience and not&nbsp;&nbsp; wanting to run my company anymore. You used this&nbsp; term earlier, the midlife cryales. Was that what&nbsp;&nbsp; it was? Or chrysalis. Crystis. Chrysalis. What is&nbsp; that? Is that kind of along the same lines? So if&nbsp;&nbsp; you think about the caterpillar to butterfly&nbsp; journey, midlife is the chrysalis. It's that&nbsp;&nbsp; cocoon in which all of the change is happening. at&nbsp; the time, you know, when you're going through it,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's like, oh my life my life is liquefying&nbsp; in front of myself, but you know, on the other&nbsp;&nbsp; side of it, there's a metamorphosis that happens.&nbsp; And so uh I I like to use the language and in fact&nbsp;&nbsp; I have a podcast called the midlife crystis&nbsp; um because I want to help you know change the&nbsp;&nbsp; dialogue around midlife so that the number one&nbsp; word attached to midlife is not crisis um but in&nbsp;&nbsp; fact it's maybe cryis and the idea that um life is&nbsp; meant to be transformative uh during that era that&nbsp;&nbsp; is actually very empowering I am sort of going&nbsp; through that not necessarily in this intense way&nbsp;&nbsp; yet but that might be You said there's a bunch&nbsp; of upsides to being getting older.

It might be&nbsp;&nbsp; helpful just to share a couple of those things for&nbsp; folks that are like, "Oh, wow. I didn't realize&nbsp;&nbsp; that." Emotional intelligence grows with age. Um,&nbsp; our wisdom can grow with age, although we know 70&nbsp;&nbsp; year olds who are not as wise as 30-year-olds.&nbsp; So, it's a matter of what you do with your&nbsp;&nbsp; life experience. I define wisdom as metabolized&nbsp; experience mindfully shared for the common good.&nbsp;&nbsp; Uh, what else gets better with age? You learn how&nbsp; to edit. you can't you you have no more Fs left&nbsp;&nbsp; to give, no more effects left to give there. That&nbsp; is absolutely true, especially for women as they&nbsp;&nbsp; age. You are more spiritually curious. Uh you're&nbsp; um I mean the list is long and and so there are&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of things that actually another one that&nbsp; I don't love is you're not compartmentalized.&nbsp;&nbsp; When you're younger, you're compartmentalized.&nbsp; As you go grow older, you are growing whole.&nbsp;&nbsp; And that means you're alchemizing curiosity and&nbsp; wisdom, introvert, extrovert, masculine, feminine,&nbsp;&nbsp; gravitas, depth and levity, lightness. And the&nbsp; people who I really admire who are 85 years old,&nbsp;&nbsp; they're so present and they are so whole. They&nbsp; are like they are just who they are.

There's&nbsp;&nbsp; a quote I found from you along these lines. The&nbsp; societal narrative on aging is just don't do it.&nbsp;&nbsp; Yeah. there. I mean, we sort of say like we want&nbsp; we don't want to age, but we do want to live. And&nbsp;&nbsp; quite frankly, aging and living are the same thing&nbsp; as are aging and growing. Coming back to MEA,&nbsp;&nbsp; just for folks that are like interested, curious&nbsp; about this, who's this for, would you say,&nbsp;&nbsp; who should seriously look into this program? MEA&nbsp; is really the people who tend to come to MA are in&nbsp;&nbsp; a midst of a transition. It could be uh selling&nbsp; their company, leaving a job, getting divorced,&nbsp;&nbsp; um having kids, um becoming an empty neester,&nbsp; taking care of parents till they're passing away,&nbsp;&nbsp; having a health diagnosis. That's scary. So&nbsp; average age is 54 and it's people of all walks&nbsp;&nbsp; of life. Uh so it's not just the tech industry,&nbsp; but a lot, you know, it's very popular in the&nbsp;&nbsp; tech industry. Um it's people who are looking to&nbsp; maybe do a reframe of their purpose uh and maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; even a reinvention of their career and so yeah and&nbsp; and the two campuses are just gorgeous.

Uh they&nbsp;&nbsp; it's been called the Four Seasons meets Blue Zones&nbsp; meets the Elon Institute which I like. Um, and uh,&nbsp;&nbsp; we don't we have online programs, too. And so you&nbsp; don't have to come to either of our campuses in&nbsp;&nbsp; Mexico or on the beach or in uh, New Mexico. Uh,&nbsp; you can actually do it online. Those three. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's the tagline. That's your tagline right&nbsp; there. Esselin meets Blue Zones meets what was&nbsp;&nbsp; the first one? The Four Seasons. The Four Seasons.&nbsp; Yeah. Nailed it. Okay, I'm going to zoom out and&nbsp;&nbsp; take us to a recurring segment on this podcast. I&nbsp; want to see if this goes anywhere. Uh AI corner.&nbsp;&nbsp; And with AI Corner, ask guests just what's a way&nbsp; that you've found AI useful in your work or in&nbsp;&nbsp; your life. Any kind of trick you've learned, any&nbsp; workflow, anything you found useful. Yeah, you&nbsp;&nbsp; know, I I have a daily blog. It's called Wisdom&nbsp; Well, and it's on the MBA website. And um when&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm looking for inspiration, you know, AI does it&nbsp; for me. And ultimately, it gives me a first draft.&nbsp;&nbsp; And that's good enough for me then to say like,&nbsp; okay, because there's times when I'm like missing&nbsp;&nbsp; the inspiration.

I tend to write really well in&nbsp; the morning. If it's any other time of the day,&nbsp;&nbsp; I do not like writing creatively. Um so if I have&nbsp; a deadline for tomorrow and it's five o'clock in&nbsp;&nbsp; the afternoon, it's like, "Okay, chat GBT. I'm on&nbsp; my way to you." And I I tend to use chat GBT the&nbsp;&nbsp; most because I don't know. I mean I like Claude as&nbsp; well, but um yeah. Okay, awesome. I was going to&nbsp;&nbsp; ask which tool you use uh and what's your workflow&nbsp; there? Is it you use voice mode? Do you just kind&nbsp;&nbsp; of type out here's what I'm thinking about? Write&nbsp; me a little drop blog post. The good news is that&nbsp;&nbsp; at this point, uh it knows me well enough and&nbsp; my and my blogs and I've actually, you know,&nbsp;&nbsp; it it it knows my my sort of weird sense of humor.&nbsp; Uh so it's able to ape me pretty well. So, I'll&nbsp;&nbsp; just say I need a 250word post on um like today,&nbsp; you know, today's post was a post that chat GBT&nbsp;&nbsp; helped me with it. I said, I believe that there's&nbsp; a a a reframe that needs to happen with soul.

We&nbsp;&nbsp; tend to say like I have a soul or I don't have&nbsp; a soul, but what if this my soul has me? um what&nbsp;&nbsp; if in fact my job is just to be this vehicle for&nbsp; my soul to go to the next lifetime and my so my&nbsp;&nbsp; job is to be this steward of the soul and I said&nbsp; write me something around that and so it's just a&nbsp;&nbsp; weird idea and of course my not all my blog posts&nbsp; are so new age and and uh like that I I I write a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot on leadership but that was one that you know&nbsp; within you know 30 seconds I had a 250word you&nbsp;&nbsp; blog post that I then adapted. And there you&nbsp; go. Amazing. Chip, we've covered a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; ground. We've gone through your entire life. Maybe&nbsp; actually just the tip of the iceberg. With that,&nbsp;&nbsp; we've reached our very exciting lightning round.&nbsp; I've got five questions for you. Are you ready?&nbsp;&nbsp; Yes. Let's do it. First question. What are two or&nbsp; three books that you find yourself recommending&nbsp;&nbsp; most to other people? My favorite book of all&nbsp; time, Man's Search for Meaning, Victor Frankle, uh&nbsp;&nbsp; in a concentration camp in World uh World War II.&nbsp; when someone's going through a hard time in their&nbsp;&nbsp; life, I say, "Read that book.

You'll realize it's&nbsp; not so bad what you're going through." Yeah. Um,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it also really speaks to this idea of despair&nbsp; equals suffering minus meaning. I wrote a book&nbsp;&nbsp; uh called Emotional Equations that was a New York&nbsp; Times bestseller that spoke to this idea that what&nbsp;&nbsp; if you could take all of your emotions and turn&nbsp; them into equations. Very engineering-minded of&nbsp;&nbsp; me. Um, so that's one. Um I you know I love uh any&nbsp; book by Liz Gilbert. Um sort of the opposite. So&nbsp;&nbsp; Elizabeth Gilbert wrote E Pray Love. Her her book&nbsp; she's a she's on faculty at MEA. She teaches here.&nbsp;&nbsp; Um uh Big Magic is just a beautiful book about&nbsp; sort of like how do you get in the flow to allow&nbsp;&nbsp; the genie to come through you. um her TED talk in&nbsp; 2009 was about the fact that genius is not about&nbsp;&nbsp; being the genius yourself. It's about being the&nbsp; receptacle for the genie to come through you. I&nbsp;&nbsp; want to come back to this uh equation you shared.&nbsp; I was going to get to it but I didn't. So this is&nbsp;&nbsp; a good opportunity to So there's a couple that&nbsp; are really interesting to me.

This is you wrote&nbsp;&nbsp; about these in a book. You have a bunch of these&nbsp; equations about living a happier life. So the one&nbsp;&nbsp; you shared is despair equals suffering minus&nbsp; meaning. Yes. And so the implication there is&nbsp;&nbsp; if you want less despair increase the meaning.&nbsp; That's right. So suffering suffering the sort of&nbsp;&nbsp; Buddhist philosophy number the first noble truth&nbsp; of Buddhism is that suffering is ever present.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so if suffering is a constant and you have&nbsp; two variables uh using some algebra I guess um&nbsp;&nbsp; you know that uh if you have more meaning you&nbsp; have less suffering. And so that's that one.&nbsp;&nbsp; The other one that I love is anxiety equals&nbsp; uncertainty times powerlessness. Maybe talk about&nbsp;&nbsp; that one briefly. 98% of anxiety comes from two&nbsp; sources. One is what you don't know and number two&nbsp;&nbsp; is what you can't control or influence and based&nbsp; upon social science. And so um you can create an&nbsp;&nbsp; anxiety balance sheet and you know create four&nbsp; columns. First column is what is it you do know&nbsp;&nbsp; about this thing that's making you anxious? The&nbsp; second column is what is it you don't know. The&nbsp;&nbsp; third column is what is it you can control or&nbsp; influence.

And the fourth column is what is it you&nbsp;&nbsp; can't control or influence. And when you take free&nbsp; floating anxiety and put it into uh a an equation,&nbsp;&nbsp; it actually makes it more tangible and you often&nbsp; are less anxious as a result. Boom. Okay. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you're feeling anxious right now, this is an&nbsp; exercise you can do and you'll feel less anxious&nbsp;&nbsp; in like five minutes is what I'm Okay. Excellent.&nbsp; Very, very good nugget of advice. Okay. Let's keep&nbsp;&nbsp; going with the lightning round. come back from our&nbsp; tangent. Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV&nbsp;&nbsp; show you've really enjoyed? I mean, Ted Lasso is&nbsp; I'm like a sucker for for for that show. You know,&nbsp;&nbsp; when it comes to movies, I'm a total movie buff.&nbsp; I I we have an annual MEA film festival uh at our&nbsp;&nbsp; Santa Fe campus. Um and I would say that the film&nbsp; that I'm most excited about that is coming out&nbsp;&nbsp; um that most people have never heard of is called&nbsp; I'll Push You. And it's the story of two guys,&nbsp;&nbsp; one of whom is uh in a degenerative health&nbsp; condition and in a wheelchair and his best&nbsp;&nbsp; friend pushes him the 500 miles of the Camino&nbsp; de Santiago and it's the relationship they&nbsp;&nbsp; build along that way.

Amazing. Very deep cut.&nbsp; Do you have a favorite product that you recently&nbsp;&nbsp; discovered that you really love? Yes. Hair growing&nbsp; material. No. Um, you know, uh, Viori shorts I I,&nbsp;&nbsp; you know, I sound like Scott Galloway because&nbsp; he t he advertises this, but Viori shorts are&nbsp;&nbsp; like I just love them. You know, they're just&nbsp; breathe and they're comfortable. I'm wearing the&nbsp;&nbsp; Yori uh joggers right now. Uh, the one downside&nbsp; of Yori, not to make anyone mad, is they're not&nbsp;&nbsp; like very they're kind of plasticky if you look&nbsp; at the material. So, I'm trying to like I don't&nbsp;&nbsp; know. Yeah. But I do love There's nothing better.&nbsp; That's the problem. I have done anything else like&nbsp;&nbsp; this that isn't all cotton. Yeah. Yes. But I'm&nbsp; a fan. I have many Vori. I don't know if they're&nbsp;&nbsp; called chuggers. Just I don't know, weekenders&nbsp; or something. Anyway, love you, Vori. Okay. Do&nbsp;&nbsp; you have a favorite life motto that you often come&nbsp; back to and find really useful in work or in life?&nbsp;&nbsp; I imagine you have many, but is there one that&nbsp; comes to mind? I mean, my favorite one right now&nbsp;&nbsp; is your painful life lessons are the raw material&nbsp; for your future wisdom.

And the the premise of&nbsp;&nbsp; that is that wisdom often comes through the school&nbsp; of hard knocks. So when you're in the midst of&nbsp;&nbsp; a really, you know, challenging time, you're&nbsp; developing your future wisdom that's going to be&nbsp;&nbsp; valuable to you. Okay. Final question. You were on&nbsp; the board of Burning Man or you still are. Uh it&nbsp;&nbsp; was for us. I I helped found the board of Burning&nbsp; Man. Yeah. Okay. No big deal. So I don't know if&nbsp;&nbsp; you know this. I got married at Burning Man. We&nbsp; had a unofficial wedding there on bicycles. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's really meaningful to us. I've been there&nbsp; four or five times. Uh, what's something about&nbsp;&nbsp; Biringham that maybe people don't know some&nbsp; insight story or a really unexpected piece of&nbsp;&nbsp; this the journey? I may imagine there's a lot, but&nbsp; what comes to I would say the best not well-known&nbsp;&nbsp; thing about Burning Man is that Burning Man owns&nbsp; a place called Fly Ranch and Fly Ranch is about 10&nbsp;&nbsp; miles from Burning Man. Now, if when you go to the&nbsp; burn, uh the event in, you know, around Labor Day,&nbsp;&nbsp; uh you cannot go over there, it's it's it's locked&nbsp; off.

It's 3,400 acres. But if you do, if you look&nbsp;&nbsp; at Fly Ranch, um fly ranch.org, I think it might&nbsp; even be or it's on the Burning Man site. Fly Ranch&nbsp;&nbsp; is like the opposite of Burning Man. Burning Man&nbsp; is this alkaline desert. Like there's no no living&nbsp;&nbsp; life there at all. It's very masculine. Fly Ranch&nbsp; is like porous and and like lots of like desert&nbsp;&nbsp; grasses and hot springs and hot pools and it and&nbsp; birds and wild horses and it's one of my favorite&nbsp;&nbsp; hot springs places in the world. Um so just check&nbsp; it out and you can go there when it's not during&nbsp;&nbsp; the event and and it's it's quite beautiful. Feels&nbsp; like it might have inspired uh MEA in many ways.&nbsp;&nbsp; It didn't. Yes. Chip, two final questions. Where&nbsp; can folks find you online and how can listeners be&nbsp;&nbsp; useful to you? So online, meowisdom.com is the&nbsp; website for MEA. My website's chipconley.com,&nbsp;&nbsp; co- ny. And uh I'm on LinkedIn. That's&nbsp; really from a social media perspective,&nbsp;&nbsp; the thing that I do the most. I actually take&nbsp; my daily blogs and put them on LinkedIn. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then what the what the your community can do,&nbsp; just Yeah.

Come say hi. come uh check me out. And&nbsp;&nbsp; if wisdom is interesting to you, and I think&nbsp; wisdom should be interesting to everybody here,&nbsp;&nbsp; um on the MEA website at the very bottom footer,&nbsp; you will see a bunch of free resources. One of&nbsp;&nbsp; them is called Why Successful Leaders Value&nbsp; Wisdom. It is a free resource. Um and there&nbsp;&nbsp; there's also a free resource down there called the&nbsp; Anatomy of a Transition. Those two free resources,&nbsp;&nbsp; understanding how to build your TQ, your&nbsp; transitional intelligence and understanding&nbsp;&nbsp; how to develop wisdom are two, to my mind, two&nbsp; of the most important modern skills that we can&nbsp;&nbsp; have. It's funny when you say you're on LinkedIn.&nbsp; It feels doesn't resonate with me. You can chip&nbsp;&nbsp; conly on LinkedIn posting on LinkedIn. So, I don't&nbsp; know why because I'm a little too Burning Man.&nbsp;&nbsp; You're just Yeah, exactly. It feels like that's&nbsp; not your vibe. But I love that you do it because&nbsp;&nbsp; that's where the people are. Oh, I I put wild&nbsp; weird stuff up on LinkedIn and you know, thank&nbsp;&nbsp; thank God somebody's doing that. I got for some&nbsp; reason I don't see it. I need to fix that.

Chip,&nbsp;&nbsp; this was incredible. Everything I was hoping&nbsp; it'd be, thank you so much for being here and&nbsp;&nbsp; for sharing your wisdom. I am so proud as I go&nbsp; back like I'm your proud papa who just loves to&nbsp;&nbsp; see you in your element. And I just want to say&nbsp; make sure everybody knows the following. Lenny&nbsp;&nbsp; was so good to work with. I really when whenever&nbsp; you were assigned to a pro uh project as a PM,&nbsp;&nbsp; I appreciated it because I just knew that we were&nbsp; gonna have great conversations and you're you're&nbsp;&nbsp; just an interesting dude. Well, I appreciate&nbsp; that, Chip. That's going to be the beginning&nbsp;&nbsp; of this whole episode. We're just going to put&nbsp; that up front. Just kidding. That was awesome,&nbsp;&nbsp; Chip. Really appreciate it. Uh and thanks everyone&nbsp; for listening. Bye, everyone. Thank you so much&nbsp;&nbsp; for listening. If you found this valuable, you&nbsp; can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts,&nbsp;&nbsp; Spotify, or your favorite podcast app.&nbsp; Also, please consider giving us a rating&nbsp;&nbsp; or leaving a review as that really helps other&nbsp; listeners find the podcast. You can find all&nbsp;&nbsp; past episodes or learn more about the show at&nbsp; lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
