---
title: "How Intercom rose from the ashes by betting everything on AI | Eoghan McCabe (founder and CEO)"
date: "2025-08-21"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Eoghan McCabe"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Eoghan McCabe is the founder and CEO of Intercom, a customer service platform that has successfully pivoted to become an AI-first company with its agent product, Fin. After stepping away from the CEO "
word_count: 13595
youtube_id: "0_opWSfmN8M"
---

You don't have a choice. AI is going to&nbsp; disrupt in the most aggressive violent&nbsp;&nbsp; ways. If you're not in it, you're&nbsp; about to get kicked out of all of it. You have very successfully shifted late stage&nbsp; SaaS business to an AI-first agent-based business. Fin is our AI agent who will pass 100 million&nbsp; ARR with Fin in less than three quarters. Let's talk about how you&nbsp; made this actually happen. We were about to hit $0 net new ARR, which means&nbsp; we would've been in negative growth territory. So, ChatGPT launches. Was it just like this&nbsp; is it, we got to go all in on this thing? I said, we need to become a wartime company. If&nbsp; we don't fight for this, we are dead. I jumped&nbsp;&nbsp; hard on AI, but I also restarted the culture.&nbsp; I rewrote the values designed to be a sharp&nbsp;&nbsp; knife to cut out the parts of the company&nbsp; that I just knew wouldn't be effective. If you're trying to make the&nbsp; shift and it's just not moving,&nbsp;&nbsp; you may need to go hardcore founder mode. The way that greatness is created is that you find&nbsp;&nbsp; a CEO who's willing to make brave&nbsp; hard decisions and own the results.

What percentage of the employees kind&nbsp; of turned over during this period? Ultimately like 40%. You said there was a soft coup. Is&nbsp; there more you could share about that?&nbsp; Today my guest is Eoghan McCabe. This is the first&nbsp; in a series of conversations that I'm having with&nbsp;&nbsp; founders who have successfully transformed their&nbsp; established SaaS or marketplace businesses into an&nbsp;&nbsp; AI first company that is growing like crazy and&nbsp; overtaking their decade plus old business. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; many companies and product teams and founders&nbsp; are trying to navigate this very tricky time&nbsp;&nbsp; where every industry is being disrupted by AI,&nbsp; and my goal here is to help you essentially&nbsp;&nbsp; disrupt yourself before somebody else does. The&nbsp; story of Intercom's transformation into Fin is&nbsp;&nbsp; incredible. Their traditional business was valued&nbsp; at billions of dollars, was making hundreds of&nbsp;&nbsp; millions of dollars in ARR, but growth started&nbsp; to plateau and was even about to go negative.&nbsp;&nbsp; Six weeks after GPT-3.5 Came out, they had a&nbsp; working prototype of what is now Fin and Eoghan&nbsp;&nbsp; and the team decided to go all in on AI. Today Fin is growing like crazy already&nbsp;&nbsp; at eight digits in ARR and Intercom is on track&nbsp; to be growing faster than every public software&nbsp;&nbsp; company by next year.

In our conversation,&nbsp; Eoghan gets very real and honest about what&nbsp;&nbsp; it takes to win right now. What do you have to do&nbsp; to turn the ship around at Intercom in spite of a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of pushback and even a soft coup attempt,&nbsp; what he believes people still don't understand&nbsp;&nbsp; about what is happening in software and AI&nbsp; and so much more. If you enjoy this podcast,&nbsp;&nbsp; don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your&nbsp; favorite podcasting app or YouTube. Also, if you&nbsp;&nbsp; become an annual subscriber of my newsletter,&nbsp; you get a year free of a bunch of incredible&nbsp;&nbsp; products including Lovable, Replit, Bolt n8n,&nbsp; Linear, Superhuman Descript, Whisper Flow,&nbsp;&nbsp; Gamma Perplexity, Warp, Granola, Magic Patterns,&nbsp; Raycast, and Mobbin. Check&nbsp;&nbsp; it out at lennysnewsletter.com and click&nbsp; bundle. With that, I bring you Eoghan McCabe.&nbsp; This episode is brought to you by Great Question&nbsp; the all-in-one UX research platform. Loved by&nbsp;&nbsp; teams at Brex, Canva, Intuit and more. One of the&nbsp; most common things I hear from PMs and founders&nbsp;&nbsp; that I talked to is I know I should be speaking to&nbsp; customers more, but I just don't have the time or&nbsp;&nbsp; the tools. That's exactly the gap Great Question&nbsp; fills.

Great Question makes it easy for anyone&nbsp;&nbsp; on your team, not just researchers, to recruit&nbsp; participants, run interviews, send surveys, test&nbsp;&nbsp; prototypes, and then share it all with powerful&nbsp; video clips. It's everything you need to put your&nbsp;&nbsp; customers at the center of your product decisions.&nbsp; With a prompt as simple as why did users choose us&nbsp;&nbsp; over competitors, Great question not only reveals&nbsp; what your customers have already shared, but it&nbsp;&nbsp; also makes it incredibly easy to ask them in the&nbsp; moment for fresh insights from the right segment.&nbsp;&nbsp; Picture this, your roadmap's clear, your team's&nbsp; aligned, you're shipping with confidence and&nbsp;&nbsp; you're building exactly what your customers need.&nbsp; Head to greatquestion.com/lenny to get started.&nbsp; This episode is brought to you by WorkOS. If&nbsp; you're building a SaaS app, at some point your&nbsp;&nbsp; customers will start asking for enterprise&nbsp; features like SAML authentication and SCIM&nbsp;&nbsp; provisioning. That's where WorkOS comes in, making&nbsp; it fast and painless to add enterprise features&nbsp;&nbsp; to your app. Their APIs are easy to understand so&nbsp; that you can ship quickly and get back to building&nbsp;&nbsp; other features. Today, hundreds of companies&nbsp; are already powered by WorkOS, including ones&nbsp;&nbsp; you probably know like Vercel, Webflow and Loom.&nbsp; WorkOS also recently acquired Warrant, the fine&nbsp;&nbsp; grain authorization service.

Warrant's product&nbsp; is based on a groundbreaking authorization system&nbsp;&nbsp; called Zanzibar, which was originally designed&nbsp; for Google to power Google Docs and YouTube.&nbsp;&nbsp; This enables fast authorization checks at enormous&nbsp; scale while maintaining a flexible model that can&nbsp;&nbsp; be adapted to even the most complex use cases.&nbsp; If you're currently looking to build role-based&nbsp;&nbsp; access control or other enterprise features&nbsp; like single sign-on, SCIM or user management,&nbsp;&nbsp; you should consider WorkOS. It's a drop-in&nbsp; replacement for Auth0 and supports up to 1 million&nbsp;&nbsp; monthly active users for free. Check it out at&nbsp; workos.com to learn more. That's workos.com.&nbsp; Eoghan, thank you so much for being&nbsp; here and welcome to the podcast. Thank you. Great to be here. You have done something quite extraordinary&nbsp; with Intercom, something that a lot of founders&nbsp;&nbsp; and product teams are trying to do, which&nbsp; is to navigate this very scary disruption&nbsp;&nbsp; that's happening as a result of AI to most&nbsp; businesses. You have very successfully shifted,&nbsp;&nbsp; as you described, a late-stage SaaS business to&nbsp; an AI-first agent-based very successful business.&nbsp;&nbsp; I want to use the time to extract as much&nbsp; as I can out of your journey so that people&nbsp;&nbsp; that are trying to navigate this and having a&nbsp; hard time can have less pain, less suffering&nbsp;&nbsp; and will hopefully get to something that works.&nbsp; To give people a sense of just how well things&nbsp;&nbsp; have gone.

Can you share some stats about the&nbsp; current state of the business, how it's going? Currently across the business we benchmark&nbsp; ourselves against all public software companies.&nbsp;&nbsp; There's like 120 something B2B software companies.&nbsp; We're like in the 15th percentile for ARR growth,&nbsp;&nbsp; so we're up there. Fin, which is our AI&nbsp; agent, which is the future of the business,&nbsp;&nbsp; the thing that will disrupt the old&nbsp; business. It's growing north of 300%.&nbsp;&nbsp; It took off really fast like all these other&nbsp; AI companies you hear of the first year,&nbsp;&nbsp; it grew from one to 12 million ARR. We're now&nbsp; in solid mid eight digit ARR growth there,&nbsp;&nbsp; we'll pass 100 million ARR with Fin in&nbsp; less than three quarters. And yeah, Fin,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're in the customer experience category with&nbsp; Fin, so it's one of these agents that helps do&nbsp;&nbsp; all your customer work and they all started&nbsp; with service and in that category we are the&nbsp;&nbsp; biggest by customer count, biggest by revenue,&nbsp; best by performance benchmarks. We win all our&nbsp;&nbsp; head-to-heads and our direct competitor&nbsp; bake-offs. We're rated number one on G2,&nbsp;&nbsp; so I think we're doing pretty well. We're doing&nbsp; far better than we imagined at this point.

Okay. This sounds like the dream for a lot&nbsp; of founders, especially ones that are stuck&nbsp;&nbsp; with their existing business that isn't going&nbsp; very far. So, let's get to that. Let's talk&nbsp;&nbsp; about the beginning of this journey. You had&nbsp; a business that was working, people used it,&nbsp;&nbsp; loved it, over 100 million ARR I believe.&nbsp; Talk about just the state of the business at&nbsp;&nbsp; the point roughly when you decided I really&nbsp; need to make a big change and go AI first. It was already in the hundreds of millions,&nbsp; Intercom is 14 years and change now. Part of&nbsp;&nbsp; the story is that in 2020 I had been sick for a&nbsp; couple years. The background is I had mold toxins&nbsp;&nbsp; and later I found out that I got a tick bite and&nbsp; that messed me up. And so I left the CEO role in&nbsp;&nbsp; 2020 and a lot of the mistakes I had been making&nbsp; when I was sick got worse. We became what a lot&nbsp;&nbsp; of late stage software companies are today,&nbsp; which is a bit bloated. We lost some energy.&nbsp;&nbsp; Our strategy was diluted and unfocused. We're&nbsp; trying to do all the things for all the people.&nbsp; We didn't know what problems we&nbsp; were already solving and for who,&nbsp;&nbsp; and the result was very slow revenue&nbsp; growth in the low single digit percent&nbsp;&nbsp; and I was away for two years unsatisfied where the&nbsp; business was going.

We had this post COVID sugar&nbsp;&nbsp; rush, which a lot of big companies at that stage&nbsp; did in 2021. Everyone's valuation and revenue was&nbsp;&nbsp; through the roof and that hit a lot of problems in&nbsp; a lot of these companies and we had five quarters&nbsp;&nbsp; of success of sequential decline in our net new&nbsp; ARR and we were about to hit $0 net new ARR which&nbsp;&nbsp; means we would've in negative growth territory.&nbsp; We never got there. I managed to stop it before&nbsp;&nbsp; we got there, but we were falling each quarter&nbsp; and I found that I, despite my wishes to go and&nbsp;&nbsp; have new adventures, still had a lot of pride&nbsp; for this damn thing and didn't want to see it.&nbsp; And in a way that was so different from the way it&nbsp; started, it started with so much hope and optimism&nbsp;&nbsp; like so many companies do, and it was about to&nbsp; fade away. So, that was when I felt like I need&nbsp;&nbsp; to go back and I need to make a change. I went&nbsp; back and one month later ChatGPT was announced,&nbsp;&nbsp; so it would be really neat and tidy to be able&nbsp; to say that the AI transformation came, I knew&nbsp;&nbsp; I couldn't be on the sidelines, I had to save&nbsp; this thing from the coming disruption.

Actually,&nbsp;&nbsp; I got whacked across the head by this AI&nbsp; thing, but it also ended up being a gift. So, ChatGPT launches, was it just like this is it,&nbsp;&nbsp; we got to go all in on this thing? Was&nbsp; it like, hmm, let's watch this thing?&nbsp;&nbsp; How quickly was it clear that this is the&nbsp; future, this isn't working what we're doing? We and I were very lucky and that we had an&nbsp; AI group already. We were in the customer&nbsp;&nbsp; communication business, chiefly doing customer&nbsp; service. We were building bots, but they were&nbsp;&nbsp; rudimentary AI. We had a bunch of our own machine&nbsp; learning that did Q&amp;A for customer service, but it&nbsp;&nbsp; required a phenomenal amount of setup and was kind&nbsp; of crappy. But we had a number of AI engineers in&nbsp;&nbsp; the company already, and so when GPT 3.5 came out,&nbsp; they said, this is different and it didn't take&nbsp;&nbsp; long for people to start to imagine that this&nbsp; is going to be pretty disruptive to service.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it started where we imagined that this was&nbsp; going to just wreck everyone selling seats,&nbsp;&nbsp; everyone in the conventional SaaS game. And we believed that was quite possible for&nbsp;&nbsp; some couple years after that moment.

But we were&nbsp; only six weeks into the launch of GPT 3.5 when we&nbsp;&nbsp; actually had a beta version of Fin. I got a text&nbsp; from Des, my co-founder, a week or so after the&nbsp;&nbsp; launch of GPT 3.5 and he said, "The AI team have&nbsp; something interesting and they actually think we&nbsp;&nbsp; could make a product out of this." And this was&nbsp; long before there's now no doubt 100 service&nbsp;&nbsp; agents. We had something very early working and&nbsp; part of what we had to our advantage also was that&nbsp;&nbsp; we had this giant base 300, sorry, 30,000 paying&nbsp; customers, hundreds of thousands of active users,&nbsp;&nbsp; millions of their users, billions of data points. So, we had a lot to play with and so we jumped on&nbsp;&nbsp; it. Now obviously it's fun to tell that once&nbsp; again to the idea of this brave Maverick move,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I won't discount the fact that we were brave,&nbsp; but we were coming from a point of having nothing&nbsp;&nbsp; to lose. So, we certainly are unique. I don't&nbsp; know a single company of our size and age that has&nbsp;&nbsp; pivoted this hard to AI and being as successful&nbsp; as we have been, but we also previously were&nbsp;&nbsp; screwed.

We were in a really tough spot, so had&nbsp; no choice. So, I'll take the kudos and credit,&nbsp;&nbsp; but also have a lot of empathy for companies that&nbsp; weren't as in as much trouble as we were, and&nbsp;&nbsp; so try to thread the needle and sustain the old&nbsp; business while adding to it with the new AI stuff. Something I heard from someone that worked at&nbsp; Intercom, correct me if this is not correct,&nbsp;&nbsp; you've always been very anti-bot in the&nbsp; customer support business because you&nbsp;&nbsp; didn't like how impersonal it was. It just didn't&nbsp; feel like the way you wanted to build a business,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then now that's what you do.&nbsp; Talk about just that transition. Yeah, I know it's a fun and ironic twist. Our&nbsp; mission from the early days was make internet&nbsp;&nbsp; business personal. And when I came back and we&nbsp; started to lean into AI, I started to wonder,&nbsp;&nbsp; does that mission make any sense anymore?&nbsp; Now, part of our lean into AI is that we had&nbsp;&nbsp; no choice not only for the business, we needed&nbsp; something new, but also we saw that this is the&nbsp;&nbsp; future and you can't fight the future. You must&nbsp; be part of it.

And so okay, fuck, we're going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be part of it. And ultimately, and it's very&nbsp; easy to tell yourself these little stories. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm open to anyone telling me this is bullshit,&nbsp; but when I interrogate myself, my soul and my&nbsp;&nbsp; mind, I don't think it is, when I interrogate&nbsp; my heart and my mind, I don't think it is.&nbsp; But I'm now of the belief that providing a&nbsp; customer with a highly engaged, instantly&nbsp;&nbsp; available expert, consistent, fast, charismatic,&nbsp; funny, friendly, personal agent available for&nbsp;&nbsp; literally every single customer every minute of&nbsp; the day around the clock is so much more personal&nbsp;&nbsp; than making them wait 2, 3, 4 days for a crappy&nbsp; canned response. And so that's the irony and&nbsp;&nbsp; the magic and the wonder of AI, even if it does&nbsp; make us ask some hard questions of ourselves and&nbsp;&nbsp; think carefully about its impact on humanity, it&nbsp; actually is superior at the things we describe as&nbsp;&nbsp; personal and human, relative to humans themselves.&nbsp; And so that's where I'm at today. Yeah, maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; it's a bunch of fancy post rationalization,&nbsp; but honestly that's really where I stand. I think data has shown people often&nbsp; prefer not to talk to humans just to&nbsp;&nbsp; solve problems that can just be solved.&nbsp; It's a lot of stress to try to figure&nbsp;&nbsp; out how to talk to some support agent that&nbsp; doesn't know anything about what's going on.

Yes, and the AI is just better. Look at&nbsp; Waymo. So, Waymo doesn't crash. It has 3.5&nbsp;&nbsp; times less crashes than humans. It doesn't bother&nbsp; you or bug you. I like to chat with an Uber driver&nbsp;&nbsp; as much as the next guy, but not always. It&nbsp; doesn't have hygiene problems. It doesn't&nbsp;&nbsp; take wrong turns. I mean it just doesn't&nbsp; do all these things that really bug people.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it's really interesting to see Uber now offer&nbsp; women the option to call only female drivers,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I guarantee the reason they're doing that is&nbsp; because women love Waymo because they feel safer.&nbsp;&nbsp; AI is so often superior and humans are going to&nbsp; be far better at other things. I'm pro-human,&nbsp;&nbsp; I love humans. I really want humans&nbsp; in the mix for all things in the rest&nbsp;&nbsp; of my life, but when it comes to practical,&nbsp; productive, efficient, and effective value,&nbsp;&nbsp; the glue in between the human parts of our&nbsp; lives, I actually want AI and robotics. Before we start talking about how you actually&nbsp; made this transformation a success, one other&nbsp;&nbsp; piece of history is just your pricing strategy&nbsp; historically has been not liked by people.&nbsp;&nbsp; For example, I once had a Twitter poll&nbsp; or a survey on my newsletter just like&nbsp;&nbsp; what products do you pay the most for of all&nbsp; your SaaS products?

And Intercom's by far the&nbsp;&nbsp; most. I know people constantly complain about&nbsp; just how unclear it was and how high it was,&nbsp;&nbsp; and now you guys are at the forefront of how to&nbsp; price AI products. So, we're going to get to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; but just talk about the lessons and what&nbsp; happened there with pricing back in the day. Yeah, so I want to just validate your survey&nbsp; data. Yes, people abhorred our pricing.&nbsp;&nbsp; It was a meme. There were actual funny popular&nbsp; viral memes on Twitter that were making fun of&nbsp;&nbsp; our pricing. Part of the problem, if not all of&nbsp; the problem, well, there's two problems. One was&nbsp;&nbsp; our strategy, super unfocused. As you said, we're&nbsp; trying to do all the things for all the people,&nbsp;&nbsp; and when you're trying to do all&nbsp; the things for all the people,&nbsp;&nbsp; your efforts to capture all that different types&nbsp; of value are going to necessitate pretty complex&nbsp;&nbsp; pricing. If you're like customer service&nbsp; and you're selling seats and you're doing&nbsp;&nbsp; outbound messaging and you need to charge for&nbsp; messages and you're doing like SD or Messenger&nbsp;&nbsp; on a website and you need to charge for leads,&nbsp; already that's just metrics in every direction.&nbsp; And then if you're trying to sell to many&nbsp; different sizes of customers, you need tiers&nbsp;&nbsp; and gates and it just became a behemoth.

So,&nbsp; part of the problem was the unfocused strategy,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then the other part of the problem was an&nbsp; unwillingness to frankly make bold decisions,&nbsp;&nbsp; say no, pick a lane and actually take pain&nbsp; in the short term for the long term. We&nbsp;&nbsp; rolled out this new pricing, and this is even&nbsp; before the Fin pricing you're talking about.&nbsp;&nbsp; When I came back and I said, "Yes, we're going to&nbsp; lose a lot of revenue here." I can't remember how&nbsp;&nbsp; much we wrote down, but we actually have already&nbsp; given away something like $50 million in ARR.&nbsp; We've reduced the prices for a lot of customers&nbsp; just to give them way simpler pricing because&nbsp;&nbsp; surprise, surprise, when people feel like&nbsp; they have far simpler, more predictable,&nbsp;&nbsp; fairer pricing, they'll stick around longer and&nbsp; it creates so much more ease in the company and&nbsp;&nbsp; promotes a healthier relationship with the&nbsp; customer too. When our people saw that we&nbsp;&nbsp; were screwing customers effectively in every&nbsp; direction, it starts to erode the idea that&nbsp;&nbsp; we care about our customers and then they&nbsp; make other customer-unfriendly decisions.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so one of the values I promoted when I came&nbsp; back was that we would be customer-obsessed,&nbsp;&nbsp; and so we had to kill our old pricing&nbsp; and give away a lot of revenue.

So,&nbsp;&nbsp; that was the spirit behind the changes. But we can&nbsp; talk about the Fin pricing if you want to also. Let's save that because that's a really&nbsp; important topic that I think people need&nbsp;&nbsp; to hear. Let's talk about the shift and how you&nbsp; made this actually happen. You make it sound like,&nbsp;&nbsp; oh, not fully, but it's oh, we have to&nbsp; do, it wasn't working anyway. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; no risk to go all in on this AI thing.&nbsp; You're making $150 million a year ARR,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're worth at least a billion dollars&nbsp; at that point as a business. Yeah. I mean multiple billions. Multiple billions. We were making more money than that, so we&nbsp; were like multiple hundreds of millions. Yeah, okay. Very difficult to actually&nbsp; do even if things don't feel like they're&nbsp;&nbsp; growing anymore. So, first of all, just&nbsp; what was the moment, if there was one,&nbsp;&nbsp; of just like, okay, the six-week experiment&nbsp; of someone building a Fin internally,&nbsp;&nbsp; was that being like, this is it, or was there&nbsp; another moment of like, let's go all in on this? It was the combination of the company being older,&nbsp; us all, me and the founders being impatient like,&nbsp;&nbsp; are we going to make something out of&nbsp; this?

We went through a time when the&nbsp;&nbsp; company was worth a lot. We're private&nbsp; so we don't have a daily mark to market,&nbsp;&nbsp; but all the other public software companies&nbsp; dropped 80%, 85, 90%. We saw our revenue growth&nbsp;&nbsp; crater. We were used to nice double digits. We&nbsp; were in low single digits. And so part of it was,&nbsp;&nbsp; let's do something here. Another part of it was my&nbsp; own anger and dissatisfaction with how the company&nbsp;&nbsp; was being run and the mistakes that I made myself.&nbsp; I made a lot of compromises as a lot of founders&nbsp;&nbsp; and founding CEOs do to placate employees or do&nbsp; it out fear to bring investors along, following&nbsp;&nbsp; advice in the industry and best practices. You betray your intuition in little bits and&nbsp;&nbsp; pieces over the years when the bright spark&nbsp; of your original idea turns into this big,&nbsp;&nbsp; unstoppable, scary corporate beast and a little&nbsp; bit of you dies every single time you go and&nbsp;&nbsp; betray yourself in that way. If you could pick&nbsp; in your mind three or four tech darlings from 10&nbsp;&nbsp; years ago when you meet the CEO and talk to them&nbsp; privately, very few of them feel outstanding about&nbsp;&nbsp; the state of their culture and the decisions that&nbsp; they make and the way in which they have to work.&nbsp;&nbsp; All of them have betrayed themselves in little&nbsp; ways, and I had left the business, I was super&nbsp;&nbsp; sick, I was burned out frankly from the revenue&nbsp; even having started to slow down before I left.&nbsp; I had been attacked unfairly in the press, just&nbsp; all of me was just fed up and I decided to take&nbsp;&nbsp; a very authoritarian, top-down, aggressive&nbsp; founder-first approach to all the things,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I found that deeply cathartic and that was&nbsp; the thing that led to me in part.

The other was&nbsp;&nbsp; just good old-fashioned logic and the other was&nbsp; desperation saying, we're doing the AI thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; the AI thing, exciting and sexy. We need some&nbsp; new energy thing here. The new AI thing makes&nbsp;&nbsp; sense. And also just my intuition says, go&nbsp; for it. And so when people tell these stories,&nbsp;&nbsp; they rewrite history in their minds for&nbsp; the stories to be elegant and also so&nbsp;&nbsp; that they support their own self-aggrandized&nbsp; narratives about their brilliance. Actually,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's a big messy cocktail of things. And anyway,&nbsp; that's my attempt at explaining the cocktail. I saw a stat that when you first launched,&nbsp; when you first had this kind of prototype,&nbsp;&nbsp; you were losing money on every transaction&nbsp; that you're charging like a dollar,&nbsp;&nbsp; it cost you $120, something like that. That's right. 120 cents. Yeah, yeah. 120 cents. Okay. So, there's&nbsp; a lot of vision here if this&nbsp;&nbsp; is going to get to a place where this&nbsp; actually will be great and affordable. It's really funny. We charge 99 cents to resolve&nbsp; tickets, customer problems, and we have a higher&nbsp;&nbsp; resolution rate than anyone else, and we are proud&nbsp; of that and we obsess over that. It is the metric&nbsp;&nbsp; by which these agents are assessed, and we wanted&nbsp; our revenue to be 100% aligned with the value that&nbsp;&nbsp; they attained because we had all this scar tissue&nbsp; from pricing prior that felt unfair to customers.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, we said, what's the most fair that we can&nbsp; possibly find?

Now, when we did all our research,&nbsp;&nbsp; we found that many SaaS businesses were spending&nbsp; between 20 and $30 per ticket resolved. We&nbsp;&nbsp; were spending 22. Now, consumer businesses,&nbsp; maybe they go down to $5. We were thinking,&nbsp;&nbsp; can we charge $10? That seems fair. It's half&nbsp; price. Can we charge $5? Can we even charge&nbsp;&nbsp; two and a half dollars? But early on we started to&nbsp; sense that people just wouldn't value the digital&nbsp;&nbsp; work as much as the human work, even though&nbsp; the digital work is better, more consistent,&nbsp;&nbsp; always available, makes the customer far happier. And so we actually started to lean into a price&nbsp;&nbsp; that we thought would be was the nexus between us&nbsp; earning the most and it being the most palatable.&nbsp;&nbsp; We basically said that if someone is not prepared&nbsp; to pay 99 cent for us to rapidly and elegantly&nbsp;&nbsp; perfectly and excellently solve their customer's&nbsp; problem, we need to wrap this up. We don't have a&nbsp;&nbsp; business here. So, that was where the 99 cent came&nbsp; from. I always believe that that pricing should&nbsp;&nbsp; come from value and not from costs. The cost is&nbsp; our problem. We just had this sense and intuition&nbsp;&nbsp; early on that this thing will get cheaper and it&nbsp; got a lot cheaper.

The margin moves around, but we&nbsp;&nbsp; make a margin that makes this more than worth our&nbsp; while, and we know our customers get an excellent&nbsp;&nbsp; deal and are able to deliver to their customers&nbsp; a level of service that they never could before. It's a very clear pitch. We just had&nbsp; Madhavan the podcast and the pricing expert,&nbsp;&nbsp; and he has this phrase, beautifully simple&nbsp; pricing is where you want to get to. Also,&nbsp;&nbsp; he's a huge fan of outcome-based pricing,&nbsp; which is what you're describing here,&nbsp;&nbsp; where you pay for an outcome. So, you guys are&nbsp; in the magic quadrant of his pricing advice. Yes, thank God our pricing wars are over. Finally. Yeah. Okay, so going back to how you&nbsp; actually did this thing. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; basically you described what many people think of&nbsp; now as founder mode, just top down, as you said,&nbsp;&nbsp; the third area, and just here's what we're&nbsp; doing. We're not going to sit around waiting&nbsp;&nbsp; for you to give me ideas. What did you&nbsp; do? What did that look like internally? There was a couple of things. One was we&nbsp; were burning a lot of money, so I cut a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of costs aggressively.

Canned a bunch of&nbsp; different projects. We had this big glorious&nbsp;&nbsp; office we were about to fit out and I'm like,&nbsp; we're about to hit negative growth territory,&nbsp;&nbsp; stop it. And a lot of companies were really&nbsp; stuck in the prior world where they just&nbsp;&nbsp; were used to being super successful, rich and&nbsp; wealthy and spent like drunken sailors. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I stopped all of that, got really frugal in&nbsp; ways I never thought I would. I still haven't&nbsp;&nbsp; touched the interior design of this office. I'm&nbsp; in here, even though I call it the hotel Marriott,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm sick of it. Anyway, that was one. Another&nbsp; was picked a lane. Strategically we were all&nbsp;&nbsp; over the place and I said, "We're doing service."&nbsp; Zendesk had been acquired a couple years prior.&nbsp; They were strategically, energetically, culturally&nbsp; dead. They were upsetting customers in the&nbsp;&nbsp; market. There's an opportunity there. We're&nbsp; doing service, forget all the other stuff,&nbsp;&nbsp; even though there was a lot of people in the&nbsp; company saying, well, shit, we still have $80&nbsp;&nbsp; million of ARR that we're getting from the other&nbsp; thing and we're really good at that, and there's&nbsp;&nbsp; a big opportunity. There's other companies in this&nbsp; space worth billions.

It was the type of decision&nbsp;&nbsp; that where I had to practice the professional&nbsp; CEO approach, which is, "Hey folks, what do you&nbsp;&nbsp; all think? Let's take everyone's input. Let's&nbsp; put it all down on a spreadsheet." Everyone&nbsp;&nbsp; had color beside all of the different options that&nbsp; we may take. Let's make a group decision. I said,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Sorry, this is what we're doing." So,&nbsp; I was very dictatorial in that respect.&nbsp;&nbsp; We had no one making decisions, so somebody&nbsp; needed to, even if I had some qualms about&nbsp;&nbsp; the decisions myself, I couldn't predict&nbsp; the future, but someone had to make a call.&nbsp; Obviously as soon as AI came around, I jumped&nbsp; hard on AI and announced that we were going to&nbsp;&nbsp; spend nearly $100 million of our own cash&nbsp; on that. We allocated a lot of capital,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I also restarted the culture. We had just a&nbsp; very comfortable culture as a lot of companies&nbsp;&nbsp; did. There was a lot of focus on social issues&nbsp; and a lot of complaining and dissatisfaction,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I rewrote the values designed to be a sharp&nbsp; knife to cut out the parts of the company that&nbsp;&nbsp; I just knew wouldn't be effective. So,&nbsp; I said that people must be resilient,&nbsp;&nbsp; that we had very high standards, that we'd work&nbsp; incredibly hard, that shareholder value was the&nbsp;&nbsp; most important thing that we'd optimize for.

A&nbsp; lot of things that were controversial for this&nbsp;&nbsp; prior crowd. And then I designed these quarterly&nbsp; performance processes where not only would you get&nbsp;&nbsp; a mark or a grade for your performance against&nbsp; your goals that quarter, but you'd also get a&nbsp;&nbsp; score for your behavior against the values. And I hard coded a formula myself, and so I&nbsp;&nbsp; took it out of the manager's hands to say, if&nbsp; people got below a certain mark, respectfully&nbsp;&nbsp; and lovingly, we would say, thank you for your&nbsp; service. We're going to go forward without you.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so you do that just a small number of quarters&nbsp; and you can start to shape an organization that's&nbsp;&nbsp; design and the image of the values you want to&nbsp; create. And obviously there was a lot of pain,&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of satisfaction. There was attempts at&nbsp; soft coup, there was letters sent to the board,&nbsp;&nbsp; people really unhappy, but on the other side&nbsp; of it, the people left were the most incredible&nbsp;&nbsp; entrepreneurial, brave, inspiring, happy&nbsp; individuals you could possibly imagine. And&nbsp;&nbsp; then you hire in their image. We ran an anonymous&nbsp; employee survey, I think 15 or 16 months after I&nbsp;&nbsp; started aggressively working through the org and&nbsp; rebuilding the org and rebuilding the culture,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we had a 98 to 99% approval of&nbsp; management, leadership and new strategy.&nbsp; And this is coming from me having the lowest&nbsp; Glassdoor rating for a CEO I had ever seen when&nbsp;&nbsp; I came back.

So, I just want to explain that being&nbsp; that deliberate about your culture and upsetting a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of people is the path through which you can&nbsp; create a culture where people are super happy,&nbsp;&nbsp; super engaged, super aligned, and now we have&nbsp; just this highly performant organization. Yes,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're messy in many ways. So, that was a big&nbsp; part of it too. So, it was kind of strategically&nbsp;&nbsp; picking a lane. Remaking how we go to market,&nbsp; the pricing was a really, really big piece that&nbsp;&nbsp; had a big effect. Betting on AI and then culture.&nbsp; And I kind of buried the AI thing because frankly&nbsp;&nbsp; none of this would matter if we didn't bet on AI.&nbsp; So, the story could all be summed up by saying,&nbsp;&nbsp; when you ask what did I do, it was that&nbsp; we built Fin and that changed everything. You said that this was very unpopular. I imagine&nbsp;&nbsp; many people were not happy with all&nbsp; the change and how top-down this was,&nbsp;&nbsp; you said there was a soft coup. Is there more you&nbsp; could share about that? I never heard that story. When you make that degree of change and you&nbsp; tell people that they're in control like we&nbsp;&nbsp; did in the previous generation of late-stage&nbsp; businesses, there's going to be some friction&nbsp;&nbsp; when you change the rules.

And it's my strong&nbsp; belief that great employees and great companies&nbsp;&nbsp; want and are constructed out of a very clear and&nbsp; strong hierarchy where it is the responsibility&nbsp;&nbsp; of the CEO to make brave and hard decisions&nbsp; unilaterally, yes, using their experts as inputs&nbsp;&nbsp; and be responsible for the outcome. If I make&nbsp; decisions that propel the company in the way that&nbsp;&nbsp; thankfully my decisions have, I get rewards and&nbsp; kudos and I get to go back to the board and say,&nbsp;&nbsp; I want a bigger grant. If I don't, I get&nbsp; fired and I should get fired. If my big,&nbsp;&nbsp; brave, unilateral decisions put us in the toilet,&nbsp; then I have to take responsibility for that also.&nbsp; So, that's how in my humble opinion, it should&nbsp; work. And I, for one, don't know of a great&nbsp;&nbsp; company that doesn't work that way. You'll see&nbsp; from time to time, I did this a couple of years&nbsp;&nbsp; ago, people will construct these indexes of the&nbsp; performance of companies that are founder led,&nbsp;&nbsp; and of course this is a self-serving statement,&nbsp; but it's also true. And surprise, surprise,&nbsp;&nbsp; the founder led companies perform substantially&nbsp; better because they have the moral authority and&nbsp;&nbsp; the willingness to take the risks that the&nbsp; professional CEOs don't have the remit for.&nbsp;&nbsp; The professional CEOs are typically told, don't&nbsp; mess things up, and the founders are bored if&nbsp;&nbsp; they're not taking the risk of messing things up&nbsp; from time to time.

And so that's in my opinion,&nbsp;&nbsp; what creates greatness and great innovation.&nbsp; But like I said, there will be friction&nbsp;&nbsp; changing a company that's configured for&nbsp; democracy and committee decisions and soft&nbsp;&nbsp; and gentle interactions and communication&nbsp; to be properly founder led and top down. So, a big lesson here is if you're trying&nbsp; to make the shift and it's just not moving,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's a lot of resistance. You may need to go&nbsp; hardcore founder mode and make some significant&nbsp;&nbsp; change. What percentage of the employees&nbsp; kind of turned over during this period? Could be something ultimately like 40%. So,&nbsp; it was a big, big turnover over some couple&nbsp;&nbsp; number of years. Often the culture is set by a&nbsp; very small number of people, so it only took a&nbsp;&nbsp; quarter to really start to change the tenor of&nbsp; the conversations that were happening, but to&nbsp;&nbsp; bring in the people that were that new level of&nbsp; ambition and wanted to work as hard as the rest&nbsp;&nbsp; of us and work in a mature and engaged in excited&nbsp; way, that took a little longer time. There's such&nbsp;&nbsp; a thing as product market fit. There's a thing as&nbsp; founder market fit, there's a thing as founder,&nbsp;&nbsp; product market fit.

That's how you're doing it&nbsp; right, but there's also such a thing as employee,&nbsp;&nbsp; founder, product market fit. You have to have the&nbsp; right employees for the type of business you're&nbsp;&nbsp; creating, and there are companies that want&nbsp; the need to be more stable and they're going&nbsp;&nbsp; to want the need to hire more stable individuals. There's going to be companies that want to do the&nbsp;&nbsp; highly collaborative, more democratic thing. I&nbsp; wouldn't invest in them, but there's companies&nbsp;&nbsp; that want to do it. If you're an employee that&nbsp; enjoys that, there are a lot of positions out&nbsp;&nbsp; there. There are big companies like Google that&nbsp; do that. There are startups that hire the crazy,&nbsp;&nbsp; young, wild, messy, early startup people, and&nbsp; that's great for them and the company too. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's really all about having the right individuals&nbsp; and when you create that, not only do you create&nbsp;&nbsp; great success, but you just create a lot more&nbsp; happiness and balance and harmony. Ultimately,&nbsp;&nbsp; the employees who wanted a more gentle democratic&nbsp; environment, they're not going to be happy in a&nbsp;&nbsp; company like Intercom or Coinbase or any of&nbsp; these strong organizations. They'll be more&nbsp;&nbsp; happy somewhere else. So, even if it requires&nbsp; a little bit of a loving push out the door,&nbsp;&nbsp; I know that you're actually doing them&nbsp; a favor in the medium to long run.

I was going to say that a lot of these people&nbsp; will be happier working in a different company. Absolutely. Who wants to go to war every&nbsp; day with your organization and in Slack?&nbsp;&nbsp; That's just not fun. That's not good&nbsp; for the nervous system or the soul. Yeah, so this whole period sounds very&nbsp; stressful for you. Did you ever regret&nbsp;&nbsp; coming back and just like, what the hell did&nbsp; I get myself into? What am I doing to myself? I never regretted coming back, but I have&nbsp; many moments where I don't enjoy the job. I&nbsp;&nbsp; didn't regret coming back because it was deeply&nbsp; cathartic for me. When a founder runs away from&nbsp;&nbsp; their business, it is the ultimate betrayal of&nbsp; their heart and the dream that they have. Now,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's okay to wrap things up and quit, but when you&nbsp; kind of run away, like I kind of had to because I&nbsp;&nbsp; was sick and burned out and kind of disenchanted,&nbsp; I don't know, it didn't feel good. So, especially&nbsp;&nbsp; when I had done that, having betrayed in a&nbsp; million or a thousand small ways, my intuition,&nbsp;&nbsp; there was something I needed to exercise. So, it&nbsp; has been deeply meaningful in that respect.

And&nbsp;&nbsp; then of course, I'm fortunate that it worked out.&nbsp; I get to be on the second most popular podcast in&nbsp;&nbsp; tech. I get to pat myself on the back in front&nbsp; of all these people. Who wouldn't want that?&nbsp; That said, the reality is that for particularly&nbsp; people like me who like the adventure and the&nbsp;&nbsp; high agency being unilateral, day-to-day&nbsp; movement where you're trying to make big,&nbsp;&nbsp; wild, bold decisions, the reality is that if&nbsp; you're successful, most of your days will not&nbsp;&nbsp; be that. It'll be reviewing the bonus policy for&nbsp; next year and reviewing the comp proposal for your&nbsp;&nbsp; execs for the next year. It will be showing up&nbsp; for accountability meetings and stepping through&nbsp;&nbsp; the status of different work streams. It'll&nbsp; be rushing from meeting to meeting, having 8,&nbsp;&nbsp; 9, 10 meetings a day. I don't happen to believe&nbsp; that that's a great way to live your life. It'll&nbsp;&nbsp; be trying to get to all the emails you need&nbsp; to get to such that all those people aren't&nbsp;&nbsp; offended and hurt and trying to communicate in&nbsp; the ways with your staff and your team that is&nbsp;&nbsp; empathetic and thoughtful and keeps in mind that&nbsp; they may be having as shit a day as you are.&nbsp; You're giving me an opportunity to paint&nbsp; story of this maverick led adventure that&nbsp;&nbsp; you might imagine in a comic.

I'm for some reason&nbsp; picturing TinTin sail the seas, this swashbuckling&nbsp;&nbsp; adventure. It's not. It's corporate life kind&nbsp; of sucks particularly for people like me. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I have many of those days, and so the only reason&nbsp; I'm still around is that I have a broader mission&nbsp;&nbsp; that makes it worthwhile for now, but that's why&nbsp; you see so many of our best founders get to a&nbsp;&nbsp; point where they're like, okay, I've had enough&nbsp; corporate fun. So, that's the most authentic&nbsp;&nbsp; answer I could give you. No regrets coming&nbsp; back, but plenty of pain on a day-to-day basis. Today's episode is brought to you by DX, the&nbsp; developer intelligence platform designed by&nbsp;&nbsp; leading researchers. To thrive in the AI&nbsp; era organizations need to adapt quickly,&nbsp;&nbsp; but many organization leaders struggle to answer&nbsp; pressing questions like which tools are working,&nbsp;&nbsp; how are they being used, what's actually driving&nbsp; value? DX provides the data and insights that&nbsp;&nbsp; leaders need to navigate this shift. With&nbsp; DX, companies like Dropbox, Booking.com,&nbsp;&nbsp; Adyen and Intercom get a deep understanding of&nbsp; how AI is providing value to their developers&nbsp;&nbsp; and what impact AI is having on engineering&nbsp; productivity. To learn more, visit DX's website&nbsp;&nbsp; at getdx.com/lenny, that's getdx.com/lenny.

One of the interesting things about this&nbsp;&nbsp; space of agents, there's all this talk,&nbsp; agents are taking over. It's the future&nbsp;&nbsp; of software. SaaS is going to be replaced with&nbsp; agents. CX is a classic. It just feels like,&nbsp;&nbsp; I imagine looking forward, it was not obvious.&nbsp; Now looking back, it's like obviously this is an&nbsp;&nbsp; amazing place for agents to take over work,&nbsp; but there's always this talk of agents will&nbsp;&nbsp; do everything and all the SaaS software is going&nbsp; to be replaced by agents. Do you have a sense of&nbsp;&nbsp; just how far this disruption will go outside of CX&nbsp; because it's already happening in your businesses? The first thing I'll say is that CX is deceptively&nbsp; large given it's hidden behind just two words,&nbsp;&nbsp; two letters. Customer experience really&nbsp; is service success, sales and marketing,&nbsp;&nbsp; in my opinion. It's all engagement with all&nbsp; customers. It's the biggest part by headcount&nbsp;&nbsp; of any business. Any consumer business and any&nbsp; B2B business the biggest organizations are sales,&nbsp;&nbsp; service, success. So, I'll talk about things other&nbsp; than CX in a moment, but I want to emphasize that&nbsp;&nbsp; CX is the majority of business operations.&nbsp; Of course, it'll go beyond CX.

Any function&nbsp;&nbsp; that requires a lot repetitive operational&nbsp; mechanical work will be automated, whether&nbsp;&nbsp; it's chasing or collecting or issuing invoices,&nbsp; it could be onboarding or offboarding employees.&nbsp; There are so many repetitive jobs in an&nbsp; organization that it'll start to replace.&nbsp;&nbsp; One of the interesting questions is how much&nbsp; will be generic operations bots, how much will&nbsp;&nbsp; be expert agents? There are expert agents for&nbsp; law and contract review. There will probably&nbsp;&nbsp; be expert agents for accounting, but you'll need&nbsp; the glue in between all of these agents too. But&nbsp;&nbsp; future organizations will be agents everywhere.&nbsp; I've spent quite a bit of time thinking about&nbsp;&nbsp; what does it all look like in the future, and&nbsp; I imagine it as a medley of humans and agents,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I don't think it's obviously going to be&nbsp; humans on the top and the agents all in the IC&nbsp;&nbsp; roles. I think that'll be more of a complex mix&nbsp; where you're going to have people that are like&nbsp;&nbsp; managers and leaders, but they'll be in IC roles,&nbsp; working with agents to configure them for success&nbsp;&nbsp; and monitor and manage their progress, kind of add&nbsp; that oversight and cover for edge cases. And so I&nbsp;&nbsp; think we're going to be surprised in which the way&nbsp; that these organizations go, they'll definitely&nbsp;&nbsp; be smaller, they'll be flatter because of that.

I won't be surprised if there are agents at the&nbsp;&nbsp; highest level too. I mean, I've been thinking&nbsp; about how, and we do have a great human chief&nbsp;&nbsp; of staff here, but imagine a future human chief&nbsp; of staff that understands your priorities and&nbsp;&nbsp; actually talks to you and does a check in each&nbsp; day and reaches out to different people and ask&nbsp;&nbsp; for updates and helps organize your priorities&nbsp; and helps you remember who you need to keep&nbsp;&nbsp; accountable. Clearly there's an opportunity for&nbsp; that. And so you can imagine agents in specific&nbsp;&nbsp; roles like customer service in operational roles&nbsp; being glue and in being kind of like co-pilot or&nbsp;&nbsp; assistant roles like that, which I mentioned.&nbsp; But what I think that all brings is just epic&nbsp;&nbsp; levels of efficiency. It's going to be super&nbsp; deflationary. There'll be a lot more competition.&nbsp;&nbsp; AI itself is insanely competitive right now. It's so intense in a way that was never before&nbsp;&nbsp; that's going to come to all industries when so&nbsp; much of their inner workings becomes automated.&nbsp;&nbsp; And ultimately I think it's going to be great&nbsp; for the consumer. They'll have more options,&nbsp;&nbsp; cheaper options, and I can't but&nbsp; see that be great for the economy,&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of economic lubricant as it were, and a lot&nbsp; of new movement and activity.

And if we were to&nbsp;&nbsp; really go off the reservation, but I'll stop&nbsp; here, that means that we need more humans too.&nbsp;&nbsp; We need population growth to show up for this&nbsp; big growth economically. And yeah, I just see&nbsp;&nbsp; the future as just a beautiful collaboration&nbsp; between humans and agents in every direction. I love the optimism. Someone described&nbsp; this once as a society ... What is it?&nbsp;&nbsp; Agentic society where it's us&nbsp; and agents living together. Right. This begs the question around just jobs. We had&nbsp; Marc Benioff on the podcast. He's all agent force,&nbsp;&nbsp; agent force, agent force, and asked him just&nbsp; like, what jobs do you think are going away?&nbsp;&nbsp; He's just like, "CX, going away, gone. Sales not&nbsp; going away. We need sales people." Just what's&nbsp;&nbsp; your sense? I know it's like touchy subject.&nbsp; No one ever wants to say jobs are going away,&nbsp;&nbsp; but just what's your sense of where&nbsp; jobs might be disappearing more, most? Yeah. Well, I don't find it to be particularly&nbsp; touchy because jobs have always gone away&nbsp;&nbsp; and technology has done a really good job at&nbsp; stealing jobs that we're repetitive, demeaning,&nbsp;&nbsp; dangerous. We have less people losing limbs and&nbsp; dangerous factories or dying and suffocating down&nbsp;&nbsp; mines because of the technology that we now have&nbsp; available to us.

People breaking their backs on&nbsp;&nbsp; farms or just doing things that's highly demeaning&nbsp; to the great, beautiful creative potential of each&nbsp;&nbsp; human individual life. So, I won't apologize for&nbsp; competing with or competing for shit work because&nbsp;&nbsp; all the while technology has done that in the&nbsp; past, population has increased. GDP has increased,&nbsp;&nbsp; longevity, crime rates have diminished in the&nbsp; western world, the world that has enjoyed the&nbsp;&nbsp; most technology. So, we have no good reason to not&nbsp; believe that that won't continue. Even while there&nbsp;&nbsp; is difficulty and there has been in the past,&nbsp; no doubt, people who were gainfully employed&nbsp;&nbsp; in dangerous work in mines had to find new work. And so I don't take that for granted, but I think&nbsp;&nbsp; that this is part of the long arc of humanity&nbsp; flourishing and getting healthier and happier.&nbsp;&nbsp; What are the types of work that will go away? It's&nbsp; all the demeaning, crappy stuff, and that exists&nbsp;&nbsp; in digital businesses. You ask a human to sit at&nbsp; a keyboard answering the same question day in,&nbsp;&nbsp; day out, and you get to a point where you don't&nbsp; even ask them to answer the question manually. You&nbsp;&nbsp; ask them to click the button that brings up the&nbsp; macro.

Like what a horrible use of a human life.&nbsp;&nbsp; I've met thousands of people that have worked at&nbsp; Intercom, a broad range of talents. People who&nbsp;&nbsp; they might not describe themselves as particularly&nbsp; high IQ. Maybe they were suited at that point in&nbsp;&nbsp; their life for this highly repetitive work. You&nbsp; talk to them for two or three minutes, you'll see&nbsp;&nbsp; the bright spark of a beautiful human that if they&nbsp; got to do the right thing, they would light up and&nbsp;&nbsp; bring so much happiness and joy to the world. And so that's the mission we're all on. I'm not&nbsp;&nbsp; pollyannaish here, like I said, and I'm&nbsp; suggesting that there won't be friction,&nbsp;&nbsp; but for the most part, we're doing good. And&nbsp; to get specific, they will be CX roles and&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of basic repetitive roles. There&nbsp; is a lot of repetitive stuff in sales,&nbsp;&nbsp; and so you'll do more sales with less people.&nbsp; There are SD or roles qualifying basic questions.&nbsp;&nbsp; You're not going to need as many people in sales&nbsp; organizations. So, I'm a little misaligned with&nbsp;&nbsp; Marc in that respect. But what he's getting at&nbsp; is that what sales people bring to the table is&nbsp;&nbsp; human connection and trust, and that is not about&nbsp; to go away anytime soon.

And thank God for that. I had Ben Mann, the co-founder of Anthropic on&nbsp; the podcast recently, and he said that he's like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Even my job is probably going to go at some&nbsp; point." He was like, "Lenny, your job is going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be replaced by AI at some point." That was&nbsp; pretty compelling. Did not expect him to say that. Yeah, I don't know. It will in many ways.&nbsp; We're going to have agents in AI to aggregate&nbsp;&nbsp; content and create content, but humans,&nbsp; as much as when it comes to productivity,&nbsp;&nbsp; value, efficiency, efficiency is not&nbsp; the number one thing that we value.&nbsp;&nbsp; If efficiency was the number one thing we value,&nbsp; I'd always buy the cheapest clothes, furniture,&nbsp;&nbsp; computers, even paper for my printer. But I think&nbsp; humans value things like beauty and human stories&nbsp;&nbsp; and human heart and connection. And not only&nbsp; will they still want those and they'll still&nbsp;&nbsp; want a Lenny that has his own story and his own&nbsp; take and opinions and is a little imperfect,&nbsp;&nbsp; but they'll pay more for it. The abundance&nbsp; of AI is going to make automated things worth&nbsp;&nbsp; zero. Just like the value of cheap content&nbsp; on YouTube.

Why do people subscribe to some&nbsp;&nbsp; channels and pay more? Why do people pay to rent&nbsp; movies? Because some things have more quality,&nbsp;&nbsp; more beauty, more craft, more art, more humanity.&nbsp; So, I think there'll always be a place for that. Phew. All right. I've got a&nbsp; couple more years at least. Before I move on to a different topic. Just&nbsp; kind of reflecting back on this shift to Fin&nbsp;&nbsp; and the success that you've had, are there any&nbsp; other just lessons that we haven't touched on&nbsp;&nbsp; that you think might be helpful for folks&nbsp; that are trying to go through this journey? I think it's ultimately that you don't have&nbsp; a choice. My co-founder Des is writing a&nbsp;&nbsp; book at the moment, and that's core to&nbsp; the idea here. You don't have a choice.&nbsp;&nbsp; The story of the technology industry or digital&nbsp; technology is really short and it's punctuated&nbsp;&nbsp; by a small number of things, microprocessors,&nbsp; personal computers, the internet, maybe mobile.&nbsp;&nbsp; Now there's AI. I think AI is bigger than all&nbsp; these things. And all of these things disrupted&nbsp;&nbsp; essentially all categories. So, not only is&nbsp; this likely to disrupt all the categories,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's going to disrupt it in the most aggressive&nbsp; violent ways.

And if you're not in it,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're about to get kicked out of all of it. And&nbsp; so my strongest advice is roll your sleeves up,&nbsp;&nbsp; figure out what's going to disrupt you, have&nbsp; fun with it. You need to bring in actual talent.&nbsp;&nbsp; We and I will be nothing if we didn't&nbsp; have actual AI scientists and leaders.&nbsp; It's the only way we can be successful here.&nbsp; We have an incredible person who by the time&nbsp;&nbsp; this is out will have received a promotion to&nbsp; chief AI officer. I keep announcing all these&nbsp;&nbsp; things and that's great confidence to you.&nbsp; Fergal Reid, and he's just one of the very&nbsp;&nbsp; best in AI applications, and we happened&nbsp; to be working with him for many years.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, part of it is finding the talent and part of&nbsp; it is bringing in the young talent too. AI is kind&nbsp;&nbsp; of a young man's game, and I'm young, but I'm not&nbsp; as young as a lot of the kids building AI. And so&nbsp;&nbsp; learning to empower and enable them and learn from&nbsp; them too is a really big deal. And unfortunately,&nbsp;&nbsp; part of what you learn from them is the only way&nbsp; you're going to win right now is if you work your&nbsp;&nbsp; ass off, because all these little AI companies&nbsp; run by kids in their twenties are literally&nbsp;&nbsp; working 12 hours a day, literally 365 days a year.

No joke, all of them. And that's not a fun idea&nbsp;&nbsp; for many of us, especially those who've grown&nbsp; up. Some people in our generation have kids or&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of them do. There's comfort and stability&nbsp; in your life. You don't want to work like that,&nbsp;&nbsp; but if you want in, that's part of the price&nbsp; and that's how so many of these young new AI&nbsp;&nbsp; are going to win because very few of the previous&nbsp; generation companies are willing to make all of&nbsp;&nbsp; those changes and go all the way in. And so my&nbsp; actual advice, which is not that helpful, is that&nbsp;&nbsp; if founders of previous generation companies are&nbsp; themselves not willing to roll up their sleeves&nbsp;&nbsp; and get into it and work as hard as the kids,&nbsp; hire a kid. You can be a chairperson like I was,&nbsp;&nbsp; have a lot of fun. You can mentor the kid, hire&nbsp; a kid because you're in the wrong job, buddy. I love how pragmatic this advice is and what's&nbsp; interesting as you talk about 12 hours a day&nbsp;&nbsp; every day, it's like we're trying to&nbsp; get close to what agents are doing,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is half, that's basically 50% of agents.

But that's not just a poetic cute thing to&nbsp; say, that comes from something very real,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is these younger companies know how&nbsp; to use AI in ways that the older companies&nbsp;&nbsp; don't. The younger companies are vibe coding&nbsp; and using AI for their creative work and for&nbsp;&nbsp; their job descriptions. I guarantee you go to&nbsp; companies of our generation and even we have&nbsp;&nbsp; had to push people, you go to companies of our&nbsp; generation, most people in most organizations,&nbsp;&nbsp; particularly non-technical organizations, they're&nbsp; not using any AI. Maybe they're starting to use&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT to write a job description, but&nbsp; they're not doing it by default. And so&nbsp;&nbsp; that's more than a joke. You're competing&nbsp; with young companies that are in part AI. This reminds me, I did an interview with the&nbsp; Perplexity founders. It was, I just checked,&nbsp;&nbsp; April 2024, so just over a year ago. And they&nbsp; were saying that the way they operated, and this&nbsp;&nbsp; sounded it's so crazy at the time, is anytime they&nbsp; had a question for anyone else on the team, they&nbsp;&nbsp; first asked ChatGPT about it, and then they go ask&nbsp; the person as like, that is insane. And now this&nbsp;&nbsp; is just obvious.

That's what we all do now.&nbsp; Just like, hey, I'm just going to talk voice. It's a prime example. They're doing many&nbsp; such things. When I say 365 days a year,&nbsp;&nbsp; they're the company I think of because they're&nbsp; doing exactly that. All these young companies are&nbsp;&nbsp; doing wild, weird and ridiculous things that&nbsp; people you are in my age kind of chuckle at,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it's business as usual for them. So,&nbsp; there's just a big mind shift, cultural shift,&nbsp;&nbsp; and there's a culture clash of the previous&nbsp; generation versus the new generation. And the&nbsp;&nbsp; sooner you kind of wrap your head around that, the&nbsp; sooner you can start to unstake yourself, I think. And just to build on that, the sounds crazy&nbsp; to work this hard, it sounds very stressful,&nbsp;&nbsp; not fun. Why would I do this? This sucks.&nbsp; But at the same time, this is, as you said,&nbsp;&nbsp; such an unusual rare opportunity.&nbsp; There's so much opportunity. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; so much wealth being created. There's so many&nbsp; businesses being created. This is the time,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you were to ever work really&nbsp; hard, this is a good time to do it. I think so. I don't actually generally promote&nbsp; working that hard.

I try to not fetishize it.&nbsp;&nbsp; I actually think a life well-lived includes&nbsp; taking slow walks in nature where you're not&nbsp;&nbsp; thinking about ARR growth or hiring your chief&nbsp; revenue officer, not going to eight meetings a&nbsp;&nbsp; day. Maybe you should go to no meetings a&nbsp; day, certainly not working 12 hours a day.&nbsp;&nbsp; I don't actually promote that in general&nbsp; as a thing one should do with their life.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm simply saying that if you want to compete&nbsp; and enjoy success in this age, which means&nbsp;&nbsp; you need to be doing AI, that is the price. So, you either decide to pay the price or get out.&nbsp;&nbsp; Don't half-ass it. You see all these companies&nbsp; saying, we do AI and they've just sprinkle a&nbsp;&nbsp; little bit of crappy AI and they've got the same&nbsp; cultures. It won't work. The one thing I will say,&nbsp;&nbsp; the one little asterisk to my first point is&nbsp; that all great people and great things have&nbsp;&nbsp; been achieved through hard work. And so I'm&nbsp; speaking out of both sides of my mouth here,&nbsp;&nbsp; to younger people to let them know that every way&nbsp; of living is valid, but people who have achieved&nbsp;&nbsp; things have always worked hard and they find a way&nbsp; to enjoy it too.

And particularly in 2025 in AI. I want to follow this thread. I was going&nbsp; to ask you this earlier, but I didn't,&nbsp;&nbsp; and I want to see if this takes us somewhere&nbsp; interesting, just watching you speak and talk.&nbsp;&nbsp; You're very self-reflective, very centered.&nbsp; You have these really good breaths you take&nbsp;&nbsp; when you think about something. I met you a&nbsp; long time ago, randomly at a party when you&nbsp;&nbsp; were just starting Intercom. I don't think you&nbsp; were like that. During this kind of two-year&nbsp;&nbsp; period was there kind a transformation that&nbsp; you went through to kind of become this? Absolutely. Yeah. There's a couple things.&nbsp; First, I mean, there's three things that&nbsp;&nbsp; come to mind. Working in a startup for 14&nbsp; years has a certain way of kicking you in&nbsp;&nbsp; the head many times a day that either kills you&nbsp; or makes you far stronger. So, that's one piece.&nbsp;&nbsp; There's no elegance to that point, but I think&nbsp; we can all intuit that that level of experience&nbsp;&nbsp; teaches you something, you grow up very fast.&nbsp; Point two is I did a lot of therapy. I found&nbsp;&nbsp; this amazing guy 12 years ago. He started a&nbsp; couple of his own tech companies and talked&nbsp;&nbsp; in public.

He only coached and was a therapist&nbsp; to CEOs. He's now kind of in a later stage of&nbsp;&nbsp; his career. But this amazing guy, his name is&nbsp; Yosi Amram, amazing guy. I just landed on my&nbsp;&nbsp; feet. I just didn't know who I was dealing with. But one of the greatest minds and teachers of the&nbsp;&nbsp; last, I don't know, many decades, people don't&nbsp; even know him, but he's taught and worked with&nbsp;&nbsp; many CEOs and he just helped me get to know me and&nbsp; take time for myself. And people like to hate on&nbsp;&nbsp; therapy right now. I think a lot of therapy sucks&nbsp; and a lot of therapists are not good. And they&nbsp;&nbsp; fear that actually therapy will lobotomize them&nbsp; and turn them into thumb sucking, navel-gazing,&nbsp;&nbsp; soft, irrelevant losers that won't have that&nbsp; edge anymore. And the interesting thing about&nbsp;&nbsp; 12 years of weekly therapy and spiritual work&nbsp; is that it takes your edges off, but they're&nbsp;&nbsp; all edges that are super counterproductive.&nbsp; All the edges that made you an asshole,&nbsp;&nbsp; got you triggered, miscommunicated or fought&nbsp; back when you were insecure, they take all&nbsp;&nbsp; the edges away then help you see yourself and&nbsp; love yourself so much more for who you are.&nbsp; Be completely unafraid to acknowledge the&nbsp; things you're not good at, but own the things&nbsp;&nbsp; you are.

And in understanding yourself, you&nbsp; understand others better and can communicate&nbsp;&nbsp; in a substantially more connected and authentic&nbsp; way. Great, great therapy and it has to be great,&nbsp;&nbsp; is a recipe for brilliant leadership in my&nbsp; opinion. And then the third part is two years&nbsp;&nbsp; away where I ran away, where I was sick, revenue&nbsp; growth wasn't doing so hot. I unsuccessfully tried&nbsp;&nbsp; to defend myself from a bunch of fake bullshit&nbsp; in the newspapers. I mean I was beat up. And&nbsp;&nbsp; in a moment like that, your ego, any sense&nbsp; you have of your greatness is eviscerated.&nbsp;&nbsp; And that's painful. It can be so painful that many&nbsp; people don't come back from it, and I credit the&nbsp;&nbsp; 10 years at that point, or nine years of therapy&nbsp; I did at that point, plus the support of this&nbsp;&nbsp; therapist, the coach that I had, to surviving it. But if you can survive it, what you end up with&nbsp;&nbsp; on the other side is all of those insecure, a lot&nbsp; of the insecurities and all that ego bullshit that&nbsp;&nbsp; made you super ineffective, jealous, or triggered&nbsp; for all sorts of different reasons, it's gone. And&nbsp;&nbsp; your image that you are this perfect, brilliant&nbsp; leader that all successful founders form when they&nbsp;&nbsp; are successful had to die.

And the reason that's&nbsp; so good is that that's so limiting. When you have&nbsp;&nbsp; this ego identity of yourself about how fucking&nbsp; amazing you are, then any moment that challenges&nbsp;&nbsp; that is super scary. Anyone who questions it is&nbsp; offensive. And so I credit wherever I am today and&nbsp;&nbsp; I have decades of learning still to go to those&nbsp; three components. And I feel super fortunate to&nbsp;&nbsp; have had all of them, even though the last one&nbsp; sucked, I can finally say, wow, it really helped. Thank you for sharing all that. I'm glad I&nbsp; went there. I want to show you something that&nbsp;&nbsp; I randomly have in my office, my wife&nbsp; just got me that I think you're going&nbsp;&nbsp; to love. It's a piece of art that I think&nbsp; will resonate with . Yeah. What am I looking at here? So, it's a hand? It's a hand with a snap and then let&nbsp; me see if you can see what it says. I can't see what it says. It says ego death now. Right. Look at this. Good. Exactly. There it is. May all our egos peacefully become smaller&nbsp; and leave this mortal coil. The reality is&nbsp;&nbsp; none of our egos ever die.

And even great ...&nbsp; Ram Dass is this great spiritual teacher who&nbsp;&nbsp; died a few years ago and someone asked him&nbsp; on his deathbed something like, "How did&nbsp;&nbsp; you get over your bullshit or your ego?" And he&nbsp; said, "I never did. Just the edges got smoothed&nbsp;&nbsp; away." And this is a guy who had 70 years of the&nbsp; deepest, wildest spiritual work, he acknowledged,&nbsp;&nbsp; no, still my same self. So, the ego is still&nbsp; there and we actually need to acknowledge&nbsp;&nbsp; it and love it. And when you acknowledge&nbsp; it, then it's not a surprise when you're&nbsp;&nbsp; like a little jealous and you're like, huh, I'm&nbsp; jealous. That's funny. Okay. And it's all good. Reminds me Daniel Kahneman who wrote all these&nbsp; books about biases that we have and here's all&nbsp;&nbsp; the ways we're flawed. If people ask him, "Have&nbsp; you learned to live more rationally?" He's like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Not at all." Knowing all these things&nbsp; about how we're flawed in the way we&nbsp;&nbsp; think all these biases doesn't&nbsp; actually, I can't use it in life. We're human. We should let ourselves be human.&nbsp; I think it's beautiful. We're logic systems,&nbsp;&nbsp; but we're also heart systems and body systems&nbsp; and soul systems.

So, all of it is good. Okay, I want to go in a completely different&nbsp; direction. The last thing I want to talk about,&nbsp;&nbsp; I needed to mention this. I don't know if you've&nbsp; seen this, but I've been doing research on which&nbsp;&nbsp; companies produce the best product leaders. And&nbsp; I've been doing this by looking at which alumni&nbsp;&nbsp; of companies go on to become CPOs at the highest&nbsp; rate, get promoted the most at their next job,&nbsp;&nbsp; become the first product manager at a future&nbsp; startup, start their own companies. Intercom&nbsp;&nbsp; is coming number one across this research&nbsp; next to Palantir and Stripe, Revolut.&nbsp;&nbsp; So, the question this begs is, what are you&nbsp; guys doing that produces such great product&nbsp;&nbsp; leaders? There's the hiring piece and then&nbsp; there's what they do at Intercom piece. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; what do you think is creating these sort of&nbsp; really big successes from your alumni group? Yeah, I don't have a really succinct answer&nbsp; unfortunately. I can say in the abstract,&nbsp;&nbsp; our culture is a very producty culture. So,&nbsp; myself and Des, there was four founders and&nbsp;&nbsp; me and Des Traynor drove a lot, like all the&nbsp; strategy. We're product guys. I was a software&nbsp;&nbsp; designer.

I studied computer science, so I'm&nbsp; technical, but never did it professionally. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; the first part is that just product innovation,&nbsp; design just was just core to our culture and&nbsp;&nbsp; people always picked up on that. So, I think good&nbsp; people wanted to work here and we were good at&nbsp;&nbsp; finding good people. The other part was&nbsp; that because we had this sprawling strategy,&nbsp;&nbsp; we had all these products that we needed a complex&nbsp; structure for it and that included lots of PMs and&nbsp;&nbsp; PM groups that we gave a lot of autonomy to. And&nbsp; so the product of our big messy strategy was that&nbsp;&nbsp; we had PMs that got to act like mini CEOs. And so I think that they got to learn the&nbsp;&nbsp; broader skill sets beyond designing wireframes&nbsp; and interviewing some customers. They really own&nbsp;&nbsp; it like a mini CEO to some degree. I think there's&nbsp; one other thing which is part to our approach was&nbsp;&nbsp; this deeply first principles thinking methodology&nbsp; almost to a fault, although I don't think it's a&nbsp;&nbsp; fault. I and we would create frameworks for&nbsp; everything. It's like, okay, we want to do&nbsp;&nbsp; these events. Who are the events for? What is the&nbsp; ultimate goal of the event?

What's the mechanism&nbsp;&nbsp; by which events work? What are other mechanisms&nbsp; that can achieve that same goal? How do we define&nbsp;&nbsp; success for an event like that? How does the user&nbsp; or the attendee define value? What other things&nbsp;&nbsp; do those people find valuable? We create these&nbsp; complex systems to try and approach everything,&nbsp;&nbsp; but the net effect was we'd have really joined&nbsp; up considered strategy and it's everywhere.&nbsp; Like Paul Adams, our chief product officer,&nbsp; I didn't even plan to show this. He made this&nbsp;&nbsp; book recently, The AI Age and the Transformation&nbsp; of Customer Service and it's a bunch of frameworks&nbsp;&nbsp; for how to think about AI, et cetera. So, it's&nbsp; part of what we do. And so we would hire people&nbsp;&nbsp; who are good at that, but we teach that. That's&nbsp; teachable and not everyone does that. And so the&nbsp;&nbsp; conversations that Des and I would have, we still&nbsp; love being on whiteboards. Our very first office,&nbsp;&nbsp; our own office in Dublin, it was a tiny office.&nbsp; One wall was four, five computers, the other wall&nbsp;&nbsp; was just all whiteboards. We loved that we had a&nbsp; whiteboard wall. In our next office we had a room,&nbsp;&nbsp; square room and all walls were whiteboards.

So, we just love to draw diagrams so you can teach&nbsp;&nbsp; all that stuff. So, yeah, it's just all that good&nbsp; energy product, product energy, first principles,&nbsp;&nbsp; the people we chose. And on the founders&nbsp; side, I was talking to Des about this morning,&nbsp;&nbsp; why have so many Intercom people gone on to be&nbsp; founders? I think it's because we hired founder&nbsp;&nbsp; types and my pitch to people was always come&nbsp; to Intercom, figure out how great companies are&nbsp;&nbsp; built and build it with us and then go on to&nbsp; start your own. I would say that often at all&nbsp;&nbsp; hands. But the irony is that the people we hired&nbsp; back then, the founder types were probably not&nbsp;&nbsp; great employees. They were better founders. I'm&nbsp; not a good employee. And so it'll be interesting&nbsp;&nbsp; to see if this current cohort, we'll get&nbsp; many founders out of this current cohort,&nbsp;&nbsp; but will they convert as well as they did before? Because we're now hiring people who want to be&nbsp;&nbsp; part of something bigger. They're more mature and&nbsp; grown up, more stable and consistent. They're part&nbsp;&nbsp; of, they have a certain expertise and a certain&nbsp; lane they want to work in. And maybe they're not&nbsp;&nbsp; the crazy types that went on to start companies,&nbsp; but it's wild.

I did see some of that research&nbsp;&nbsp; by you, particularly the one where you show the&nbsp; companies ranked by the number of founders that&nbsp;&nbsp; they have. And I'm like, what is happening?&nbsp; I was as surprised that we were that high&nbsp;&nbsp; as you were because there are many other great&nbsp; companies on that list. So, surprised and proud. I love when people say, I don't really&nbsp; have a clear answer. And then you have&nbsp;&nbsp; exactly a clear answer and it resonates a lot&nbsp; with other companies on this list that I've&nbsp;&nbsp; had on of what the themes are, and I'll just&nbsp; reflect back a few of them. One is complexity.&nbsp;&nbsp; That comes up a lot. And interestingly,&nbsp; most of the other companies in the list,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll read them real quick. Intercom,&nbsp; Palantir, Revolut, N26, Dropbox, Chime,&nbsp;&nbsp; Stripe, and then Coinbase and Notion is down&nbsp; there. So many are FinTech. Almost all are&nbsp;&nbsp; FinTech. And the complexity there is really&nbsp; high. So, there's a really interesting trend&nbsp;&nbsp; there. Just complexity. Ownership is another one&nbsp; that comes up a lot. Many CEOs, GMs kind of roles,&nbsp;&nbsp; first principles thinking and just going to the&nbsp; bare metal comes up a lot in these conversations.

Yes. And then hiring senior&nbsp; people, hiring founder types. Yes. Like Stripe did a lot&nbsp; of that. I think Stripe did&nbsp;&nbsp; a lot of first principle stuff and founder types. The other thing, we didn't even talk about this,&nbsp; but you guys invented RICE. You guys popularize&nbsp;&nbsp; jobs to be done. Like speaking of frameworks, you&nbsp; guys are a wealth of frameworks that we all use. Drowning and frameworks, yeah. Drowning slash changing the way everyone&nbsp; builds product in a really positive way. Okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; is there anything else that you wanted to touch on&nbsp;&nbsp; or leave listeners with before we get&nbsp; to a very exciting lightning round? When someone like me comes on a podcast like this,&nbsp; they always have an ulterior motive and that's&nbsp;&nbsp; healthy and good. It's part of the transaction.&nbsp; Some of it is to enjoy feeling like an expert.&nbsp;&nbsp; But my ulterior motive today is to make sure that&nbsp; people understand that Intercom is a fundamentally&nbsp;&nbsp; different type of late stage company. We are a&nbsp; large old startup. Every single way in which we&nbsp;&nbsp; work is as a startup and are competing with and&nbsp; crushing the actual startup competition in our&nbsp;&nbsp; agent categories. And the reason that that's&nbsp; important for people to know is just like I&nbsp;&nbsp; said earlier, that the handicap that good but late&nbsp; stage companies have is that their late stage and&nbsp;&nbsp; people don't mentally put them in the same box.

They just don't imagine these older companies.&nbsp;&nbsp; If I told you that IBM had made the&nbsp; most wildly innovative coding assistant,&nbsp;&nbsp; you'd find it hard to believe, most people&nbsp; would. It's maybe so interesting such that it&nbsp;&nbsp; would stick in your mind, you need to go look at&nbsp; it. But by default people aren't going to look at&nbsp;&nbsp; IBM. And so I want people to take a new look&nbsp; at Intercom because it's a brand new company&nbsp;&nbsp; and our mission is to help every single type&nbsp; of business deliver impeccable, incredible,&nbsp;&nbsp; beautiful personal service to every&nbsp; single one of their users and people,&nbsp;&nbsp; many thousands of people are using Fin for that&nbsp; today. So, go check out Fin please, fin.ai. And I don't know if you mentioned this&nbsp; at the beginning, but let's mention that&nbsp;&nbsp; you predict that you'll be the fastest&nbsp; growing company across if you were to&nbsp;&nbsp; look at all public software companies next year. So, two years ago we were in the low single&nbsp; digits growth rate. We doubled our growth&nbsp;&nbsp; rate and last year we were in the low double&nbsp; digits. This year we're in the 15th percentile&nbsp;&nbsp; of all public software companies. So, you take&nbsp; the 120 something public software companies,&nbsp;&nbsp; we're in the 15th percentile.

So, we're getting&nbsp; up there fast and if we sustain this trajectory,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it's obviously dangerous to put&nbsp; these types of things out publicly,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I'll tell you, I look at the charts&nbsp; and it's hard not to imagine where this&nbsp;&nbsp; goes. I think we're going to find ourselves&nbsp; being the fastest growing out of all,&nbsp;&nbsp; relative to all public software companies.&nbsp; So, let's see. But that's the level of shock,&nbsp;&nbsp; surprise and transformation that has actually&nbsp; happened here all because of Fin. So, check in&nbsp;&nbsp; with me in a year and maybe I'll be embarrassed&nbsp; or maybe I'll be feeling like a genius. Or underselling it. This just&nbsp; reflects back on exactly how I&nbsp;&nbsp; started our conversation. You've&nbsp; done something extraordinary at&nbsp;&nbsp; Intercom. I'm really happy that we're&nbsp; here and we're sharing this story. Thank you. With that, we've reached our&nbsp; very exciting lightning round.&nbsp;&nbsp; I've got five questions for you. Are you ready? Please. Ready. What are two or three books that you find&nbsp; yourself recommending most to other people? So, I found I lost the habit of reading&nbsp; as I started to get more and more stressed&nbsp;&nbsp; with my startup. And so I would listen to&nbsp; audiobooks here and there, but the most recent&nbsp;&nbsp; book I read is a book called Nuclear War: A&nbsp; Scenario, and it's a very much a nonfiction&nbsp;&nbsp; and scared the shit out of me.

So, if you like&nbsp; nightmares, it'll be beautiful bedtime reading. Excellent. What's a recent movie or TV&nbsp; show you've really enjoyed? I love movies. I want TV to be better, but I very&nbsp; rarely find TV to be great. The first and last TV&nbsp;&nbsp; show I loved was True Detective one that was just&nbsp; incredible. But the last movie I watched was 28&nbsp;&nbsp; Years Later, and that's by Danny Boyle. I was born&nbsp; in the eighties, grew up as a kid in the nineties,&nbsp;&nbsp; and so grew up with Trainspotting. It was 28 Days&nbsp; Later. Then he made a movie called Sunshine. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; 28 Years Later is a type of movie that's just&nbsp; not made anymore. It's the most nineties movie&nbsp;&nbsp; made since the nineties. It's like very&nbsp; rock and roll and also deeply touching. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I was really surprised by that. I bet I would&nbsp; love to know that younger generations that are&nbsp;&nbsp; watching this, what they may think, they&nbsp; may hate it, but I love 28 Years Later. So, this is the same person that made 28 Days&nbsp; Later, then 29 years later . Yeah, Danny Boyle. Wow. Okay. Very cool. I didn't know about&nbsp; that. Do you have a favorite product you've&nbsp;&nbsp; recently discovered that you really love?

Could&nbsp; be a gadget, could be an app, could be clothes. I very rarely like products, I'm such a&nbsp; perfectionist that it has to be really simple&nbsp;&nbsp; with very little moving parts, like a bowl, to&nbsp; actually be like, good. I've started to get more&nbsp;&nbsp; into coffee. I've been buying products by Fellow.&nbsp; They're remarkably good for consumer products,&nbsp;&nbsp; different, it's on a different level. So,&nbsp; there's some sort of level of taste and craft&nbsp;&nbsp; happening there that I don't see in basically&nbsp; any other consumer hardware type products. And&nbsp;&nbsp; of all things, I'd bought a Porsche 911 recently&nbsp; and that is a beautiful product. The interiors&nbsp;&nbsp; are exquisite and there's still a bunch of shit&nbsp; that is going to annoy you. And so it's far from&nbsp;&nbsp; perfect. So, yeah, perfectionism is sometimes&nbsp; a gift if you're in the business of creating&nbsp;&nbsp; products, but also quite the curse. You're&nbsp; never happy, including with the Porsche 911. I think that's the third time someone&nbsp; recommended a car. Someone recommended,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think Boz at Facebook recommended a fancy&nbsp; Mercedes, and then someone once suggested a&nbsp;&nbsp; Rivian, so now we got Porsche on the list. I&nbsp; always thought maybe one day I'll give someone&nbsp;&nbsp; all the prizes, all the products people have&nbsp; ever mentioned in this.

And those are getting,&nbsp;&nbsp; Porsche might be a little high. Okay, two&nbsp; more questions. Do you have a favorite life&nbsp;&nbsp; motto that you find yourself repeating, coming&nbsp; back to in work or life sharing with friends? It's trite. It's not sophisticated and&nbsp; it's more of a concept than a phrase,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it's something around the idea that life is&nbsp; short. I'm just so aware that time ticks by and&nbsp;&nbsp; we all live on autopilot. So much of what we&nbsp; do is inspired by either our insecurities or&nbsp;&nbsp; things that other people we look up to or&nbsp; envy do. Very rarely making contact with&nbsp;&nbsp; what we really want and following our hearts&nbsp; and our heads. And we just kind of get stuck&nbsp;&nbsp; in these lanes and just live out our days. And&nbsp; certainly when you get 41 now, you get to 41&nbsp;&nbsp; and thankfully still very young, anyone in their&nbsp; forties, congrats, should feel good about that.&nbsp; But I know if you're in your twenties or thirties,&nbsp; 40 feels old. But when you're in your forties,&nbsp;&nbsp; my experience is that the weeks and the&nbsp; months and then the years go by. It's not&nbsp;&nbsp; a big deal. I'm back at Intercom two and&nbsp; a half years now to any of these kids in&nbsp;&nbsp; AI in their twenties.

If they don't get&nbsp; something done or achieved by next month,&nbsp;&nbsp; they'll be so disappointed themselves&nbsp; and so impatient. And in some ways,&nbsp;&nbsp; at least when it comes to productivity, they're&nbsp; better at getting more out of the time. But I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; now trying to get more life out of the time&nbsp; too. So, just, if there is a motto, it's like&nbsp;&nbsp; life is short or memento mori, we're all on the&nbsp; way out. So, make the use of what you've got. Fun fact, I built an app once called Savorable&nbsp; that helped you savor the moment, it was called&nbsp;&nbsp; Savorable and it sent you a text every few hours,&nbsp; I don't know, maybe once a day with a little&nbsp;&nbsp; reminder of way to savor the moment. And one of&nbsp; the texts was just like, remember, you will die. Yeah. And the problem is that even that&nbsp; idea, we forget it instantly. And if you&nbsp;&nbsp; start getting text every day, you'll&nbsp; ignore the text. Try to fault. We just&nbsp;&nbsp; don't want to acknowledge that reality on&nbsp; a day-to-day basis. Maybe that's important. Yeah, maybe for the best. Okay, Final question. Speaking of apps, I was&nbsp; doing research on you in preparation for this&nbsp;&nbsp; and I didn't realize you built Quitter&nbsp; back in the day.

I love Quitter. I found&nbsp;&nbsp; it so fun. It basically told you anytime&nbsp; someone unfollowed you on Twitter. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; the question just what happened to that app? I think we eventually sold it for 14K. Wow, that's cool. On one of these, I think there's a website called&nbsp; Flipper where you could sell websites. It really&nbsp;&nbsp; blew up. It was like a little experiment, kind of&nbsp; a social experiment. It was the first time that I&nbsp;&nbsp; had this feeling that there's no reason someone&nbsp; wouldn't want to use this. Obviously people&nbsp;&nbsp; are going to want to use this. And it was really&nbsp; instructive for me because it taught me that that&nbsp;&nbsp; feeling is possible. You meet so many founders,&nbsp; young founders particularly, and they don't have&nbsp;&nbsp; a sense within themselves about the value of the&nbsp; stuff they're building. Will this be good? Let's&nbsp;&nbsp; get customer feedback. And it is possible&nbsp; to build things that you deeply know makes&nbsp;&nbsp; sense. And that's why my formula for building&nbsp; things was to always build things for myself.&nbsp;&nbsp; And that was what Quitter was like. Followers&nbsp; go up, followers go down. At that point in time,&nbsp;&nbsp; people had 100 followers or 200 followers, and&nbsp; you'd want to know who's not my friend anymore.

Oh man, I love that that was your&nbsp; bar that led you to the success&nbsp;&nbsp; later if it's as good as Quitter&nbsp; in terms of product market fit. I mean, it had the best fit ever. About everyone&nbsp; on Twitter tried to sign up for it and it broke. Well, I loved it. Eoghan, thank you&nbsp; so much for doing this. I love just&nbsp;&nbsp; how real and open you are about everything&nbsp; and just how much insight you have to share.&nbsp;&nbsp; I also just love the vibe. I feel like I&nbsp; just am more centered just watching you- Oh, thank you. ... speak. Two Final questions.&nbsp; Where can folks check out Fin,&nbsp;&nbsp; follow you if they want to follow up on anything?&nbsp; And then how can listeners be useful to you? Check out Fin, fin.ai. If they want to follow me.&nbsp; I'm E-O-G-H-A-N on Twitter, so it's Irish spelling&nbsp;&nbsp; of Owen. But if they want to be helpful to me, I'd&nbsp; love them to try Fin. I'd love them to have their&nbsp;&nbsp; friends that run any kind of customer operations,&nbsp; try it too. This AI thing is noisy. There's so&nbsp;&nbsp; much hype, but it's also really real. And the&nbsp; weird thing about Fin, even relative to the coding&nbsp;&nbsp; apps, the coding apps are blowing up, and yet&nbsp; there's a lot of people experimenting and kicking&nbsp;&nbsp; tires.

You can't kick tires with Fin. We only&nbsp; deliver value when you expose it to your customers&nbsp;&nbsp; and it closes tickets and makes them happy. And so&nbsp; AI is really, really happening. And so if you know&nbsp;&nbsp; anyone out there that has customers, they should&nbsp; be using Fin. It's the smartest, cheapest, easiest&nbsp;&nbsp; way to dramatically enhance their business. So,&nbsp; if they do that, they'll be helping me sincerely. I'm sold. Eoghan, thank&nbsp; you so much for being here. Thank you, sir. Pretty fun. This was amazing. Yeah, thank you. Bye everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If&nbsp; you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the&nbsp;&nbsp; show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite&nbsp; podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a&nbsp;&nbsp; rating or leaving a review as that really helps&nbsp; other listeners find the podcast. You can find&nbsp;&nbsp; all past episodes or learn more about the show at&nbsp; lennyspodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
