---
title: "How to show up in any room with a low heart rate: Silicon Valley’s missing etiquette playbook"
date: "2026-01-15"
type: "podcast"
guest: ""
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Sam Lessin is a partner at Slow Ventures, a former VP of Product at Facebook, and a two-time founder who’s now teaching etiquette to Silicon Valley’s founders. In this unconventional episode, Sam expl"
word_count: 19698
youtube_id: "KtKJ3A6DWTs"
---

I just feel like no one's being honest in teaching founders this. Be early. Don't order the most expensive thing on the menu for a video call. Have an appropriate background. Don't smell like Tell me why you decided to spend time teaching people proper etiquette. You have a lot of really young people. They've been holed up in a room coding and they show up encouraged by Silicon Valley to be somewhat abrasive on purpose. You want to be able to show up in a way where people like, "Okay, this is someone I can work with and trust." &gt;&gt; Etiquette is a skill for how to show up in a room with a low heart rate. You're at the Kleiner Perkins holiday party. You have all the venture capitalists in the world and all the CEOs. You're at your first company. You're like, "Oh my god, this is my shot, but I need to convince this person of that and make this connection." It becomes very transactional. If you show up like a little Energizer Bunny, you're going to scare vote off. You're going to project totally the wrong vibe. This isn't your one shot. You'll have other opportunities.

You kind of want to show up with the self-confidence and the calm of abundance. This is part of the story. This is not the entire story. Today my guest is Sam Lesson, partner at Slow Ventures, previous VP of product at Facebook and two-time founder. This is an unconventional episode that may surprise you and how interesting and useful it is to your life. I asked Sam to come on the pod and talk about proper etiquette. You'll hear the backstory of how Sam got into this stuff, but this is turning into a big thing for him. He's teaching classes around the world. He published a book on proper etiquette. I love his framing for why etiquette matters. That the goal of learning good etiquette is to show up in a room with a low heart rate and we cover all kinds of social interactions like introductions, small talk, meals, meetings, and basically all of the most important things you need to know when it comes to etiquette. I personally found these tips really, really useful and I learned a lot from this conversation and from his book. Sam is also hilarious and so fun and I hope you enjoyed this very unique episode.

If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube. It helps tremendously. And if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year free of 19 incredible products, including a year free of lovable, replet, bold, gamma, nada, linear, devon, postto hawk, superhuman, descript, whisper flow, perplexity, warp, granola, magic pattern, cash, mob, and stripe atlas. Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and click product pass. With that, I bring you Sam Lesson after a short word from our sponsors. This episode is brought to you by Tene Webb, the company that pioneered AI website building before ChatgPT. In the last 3 years, over 2 million websites have been generated with Tenweb's VIP coding platform. Tenweb's VIP coding platform is a powerful way to build websites. Think of it as lovable for WordPress front end and backend. Users can build any website at any complexity. E-commerce portfolios, information websites, blogs, and it comes with the WordPress admin panel and thousands of readytouse plugins. Tenweb also offers website generation as an API as a service for SAS companies, marketplaces, hosting providers, MSPs, and agencies. SAS companies can embed it via API so that users can launch AI generated sites directly inside of their platform connected to their own data.

Agencies and MSPs can get a white label dashboard to manage clients and resell under their brand. Hosting providers can self-host the API builder on their own infrastructure. Check it out at 10web.io/lenny and use code lenny for exclusive free credits and 30% off API or whitelabeled solutions. That's the number 10 web.io/lenny vibcoding platform as an API. Today's episode is brought to you by DX, the developer intelligence platform designed by leading researchers to thrive in the AI era. Organizations need to adapt quickly. But many organization leaders struggle to answer pressing questions like which tools are working? How are they being used? What's actually driving value? DX provides the data and insights that leaders need to navigate this shift. With DX, companies like Dropbox, Booking.com, Adion, and Intercom get a deep understanding of how AI is providing value to their developers and what impact AI is having on engineering productivity. To learn more, visit DX's website at getdx.com/lenny. That's getdx.com/lenny. Sam, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. Blast to be here. I'm excited to just have the conversation. This is going to be a very different kind of conversation. Uh I suspect this is actually going to be really really useful and really really interesting to a lot of people.

Useful and interesting. That's so unlikely. That's the ven diagram that we that we aim for. Uh I also think it's just be a lot of fun. So uh I really appreciate you doing this. I want to give you the opportunity to set the stage for for why we're chatting through this. Just tell me why you decided to spend time on teaching people proper etiquette and why should people pay attention to this? Why is this important? I really enjoy things at the intersection of hilarious and useful, right? You kind of need both, right? And hilarious just cuz you should have fun in life. We should be working on things that are fun and interesting. Also, candidly, if we're being more honest about it, like you can't it's very hard to cut through the noise these days. So, kind of you need humor is a great way to cut through it. But humor just for the sake of being funny is not that useful. Like there has to be a deeper truth to it. And so, you know, with this etiquette thing that we've gotten into, it started as many things to do with a tweet that got escalated into an event.

It's gotten escalated into a book and a bunch of other stuff. I I kind of believe that, you know, you should always There you go. You got it with you. I've got my coffee, too. It's like there's there's a rule like, you know, you always want to just double down in life, right? And so, I'd say like why etiquette. Look, there's a serious real narrative to like why etiquette matters in 2025 for founders almost 2026. Like one, you know, we talk about software getting commoditized. We talk about all the fear-mongering and scared people feel about Silicon Valley and AI and like all the things that are going on. The net is if you want to do business and you want to do business and build great partnerships with team members, you know, with companies you want to do business with almost with anyone. The reality is etiquette ironically matters a lot, right? There is a deep truth to this, right? You especially when you're ask people to trust you with their data, trust you with their business. You know, this and and when technology is no longer some cute sideshow, but is like a major deal, like people are worried about losing their jobs, like understand how to meet people where they're at, build trust, you know, mirror kind of expected behaviors.

These are all like tools, right? So that's the deep truth. The shallow truth is it's kind of funny to teach Silicon Valley people etiquette, right? like the whole narrative for so long has been none of this matters just focus on your product saying well actually it does matter and you you know I'm wearing a t-shirt I'm not exactly known as the most high etiquette person in the world but I do know the rules right and I think like that's kind of there's some there's some it's fun and funny as well and I think those things are both important &gt;&gt; I'm going to get into the actual rules but just to follow that thread you had a really great line somewhere that etiquette is almost a skill for how to show up in a room with a low heart rate &gt;&gt; yeah this is the thing I think about a lot is like again I think up again. You and I are now old people, right? But like, &gt;&gt; yes, &gt;&gt; you're young. &gt;&gt; I feel that. &gt;&gt; You you feel it in your bones. It's like you're young, right? You're in you're at the Kleiner Perkins holiday party.

You have all the venture capital in the world and all the CEOs. You're at your first company. You're young. Maybe you're from a different country. You're like, "Oh my god, like this is my shot, right? Like I have all these people I need to talk to and I need to convince this person of that and make this connection." It becomes very little Energizer Bunny, right, you're gonna scare off like you're gonna project totally the wrong vibe. And I but I can understand why you'd be like a high intensity moment in a lot of ways. I think understanding how to show up, take a beat, come in with a a mindset not of scarcity but of abundance. Understand how to give more than you take. Understand how to build a relationship, not collect business cards. Like these are things that actually serve you massively well. And I just feel like no one's being honest in teaching founders this, right? Instead, they're saying, "Oh, no. All that matters is your product." I'm like, "Yeah, like the product does matter a lot, but if understanding these rules can be the difference between doing really well and missing a business deal, you know, if you show up with too high a heart rate and you burn a bunch of mild relationship opportunities, like I don't know why you wouldn't want these skills, right?" &gt;&gt; Yeah.

That is one way to think about it. Like, you can be successful not doing any of this, not knowing any of this. and just you just you're hurting yourself. You're &gt;&gt; making it's just an unnecessary you're creating an unnecessary uphill battle for yourself. I'd also say that look this goes back to like technical differentiation where things are at. It is true that if you bring mana from heaven, right? Like you invent something that is literally the next Google or whatever out of pure thought that sometimes none of this stuff matters, right? Like if you just if you fully that's it, you know, it's like it's literally like that happens. It happens very very rarely but it does happen. It is about not what 99.9% of startups are doing but if you have that yeah you basically can get away with anything. It is true that doesn't mean you should you shouldn't be a jerk and like candidly over the course of history you need to work with great people and like you'll be more successful if you show up with good etiquette and rules and context but like there are ways in which that can trump all.

It's just like candidly not the experience of 99.9% of startups. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. So let's get into it. There's kind of you divided this book into about 10 categories. 10 I don't know social situations is one way to describe it. So let's just go through each one and just give us some pieces of advice. Sure. And and something I didn't mention, the reason I'm excited to do this, the reason I reached out to you to do this. This wasn't you like pitching me, hey, let's talk about this on your podcast is I was like, "Wow, this is really interesting. I did not know these things." &gt;&gt; Cheers. I mean, again, like I think the thing for us is I'm kind of a ship early, ship often guy. So V1, you should buy it now and study it because it's good and it's going to be like a limited edition. You know, there's a bunch of the funny part about doing this is people come back with a bunch of other things we should cover, right? So I I suspect that eventually this will evolve beyond it. But I think the good, you know, we're starting with some good stuff.

&gt;&gt; Let's do it. Okay, so introductions and entering a room. &gt;&gt; Yeah, be early. That's the first one, right? Like, you know, again, I say this as someone who I'll be honest again, like hypocrisy, you know, I I live with hypocrisy. I'm frequently not early, right? But you should be early, right? Um, and you don't need to be half an hour early. That's a little weird. But, you know, making sure that you have some buffer time so that again, think about low heart rate. If you come in racing in the room five minutes late, your heart rate's up. If you come in, you had a second to beat in to take a beat in the in the waiting room. They kept you waiting, right? That that's the dynamic I think you want to to cultivate. Now, if you're not late, I mean, sorry, if you're not early, just apologize. It doesn't need to be like a five alarm fire. Again, it goes back to this heart rate thing. You could just apologize simply and move on. I've seen people screw this up so many times, right? Where they come in flustered and all over the place.

You're like, "It's okay. We understand, right?" Like, uh, so I think that's kind of a another really kind of obvious one, but an important one. Something I've seen, I'll go for a few others that we talk a bunch about in kind of is look um you want to have a strong handshake, firm, don't crush the person's hand. Again, this is not, you know, practice on your friends, right? you know, you want to repeat names back is a really really valuable thing to think about when you're meeting someone. Say, "Hey, Lenny, it's great to meet you." Right? Why? It shows that like you're actually trying to remember the person's name, right? Like a lot of times people meet a lot of people. It's like, "Nice to meet you." You move on. First, it's going to be harder for you to remember the person's name. Second, it actually shows like you're meeting them and making an effort, right, to actually connect and say, "Okay, I'm trying to focus on you. You're not just a number to me, right? You're not just a potential check for whatever it's going to be." So, there's a bunch of things like that.

I'm kind of curious, you know, we can go through a bunch more, but those are some of the ones I would think about. &gt;&gt; One that I loved was if somebody else is late, do not make them feel bad. Do the opposite of what you're doing of what you do. &gt;&gt; 100%. And I think this is like I've seen this with entrepreneurs and like I get like I'm a VC. I do get scheduled in like 30 minute chunks back toback like all the time, especially on Zoom. Guess what? I am frequently late. I don't feel good about it, but it happens, right? And a lot of times founders, most of the time I'd say founders know that like if I'm late, I will always apologize. I'll try to email them ahead, etc. But then it is what it is. And like they're we kind of get right into it. Every once in a while you'll have some founder who like is super indignant about it, right? They're like, "Oh, they're like it's fine if you feel that way, but it's really not very productive to make a big deal out of it, right? Like if this is a deal breaker for you that I was a few minutes late, then like I don't then now I feel like I'm wasting the next 25 minutes of my meeting time because like I'm not like this is going to be the wrong dynamic, right?

And so I just think there's like don't don't harp on it. It's okay, you know. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And also uh some advice on eye contact. Share that one. &gt;&gt; It's really important. Again, I think the thing to keep in mind is especially in an age where everyone's used to being in front of computer screens and looking at six different windows at the same time. Again, people are taking their time to meet with you or at a party. They're like taking their time to like listen to you. And it's just a matter of respect to be like, I'm actually here to this conversation. I'm not off on my screen. I'm not like glancing around the room. Now, look, there are some people, we all know this, who are like literally neuro quite neurode divergent. And that's very hard for them. Like that happens. And I a lot of founders have like neurody divergence in some ways. Like there is grace in this to a point, but it's a thing you should make at least an effort. I think one of the most important things about all this stuff is what matters in some ways is the signaling of the effort as much as the actual thing, right?

I think is a really big overarching theory. So, it's like look, if you have trouble with this but you're really trying, that goes a long way versus just being like whatever. &gt;&gt; Maybe a final tip there is around partners, introducing the partner, saying hi to their partner, share that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So, like look, this happens all the time. And again, in the spirit of I'm not perfect at this either. If you're with your partner, introduce them first, right? like yeah uh you know bring them into the conversation. One great trick we talk about in the book which I really unfortunately use all the time, right? Is there this whole thing, let's pretend you're with your partner or with someone who's a friend. It doesn't have to be romantic partner, whoever you're with. You're going to forget someone's name, right? And what you really should do is &gt;&gt; all the time, all the time. &gt;&gt; You're going to forget someone's name. And like what you're supposed to do, the etiquette is say, "Lenny, please meet my wife Jessica." You know, and like that's, you know, that kind of thing. Now, here's the thing. This is where you start betting rules.

What if I don't remember your name? Right? If you have your partner with you, you can flip it around and say, "Jessica, I want to introduce you." And then you kind of like can kind of figure out how to flame it up so that you then Lenny extend your hand and say, "It's really nice to meet you, Jessica." And you get to pick up the name again, right? Or things like that. So the way you put it there is you let it hang. That's &gt;&gt; you let it hang, by the way. I love it. &gt;&gt; It's a great example of the fact like &gt;&gt; if you're really in tune socially, &gt;&gt; you you kind of know what's going on, right? Like you know what I mean? Like you're not an idiot. like you know that oh like what is proper what this person is doing there's a gap between it there's a reason the reason is but it's it's at least enough plausible deniability of like semi bad etiquette that leverages the social situation to be a better etiquette right that it's it's a useful thing to think about as a small Q &gt;&gt; I am so bad at remembering names I like I think I have a medical issue so I just can't remember names so this tip alone is so good &gt;&gt; and just to reinforce it so there's almost like two ways to do this is what you're describing either It's like, "My wife's name is Michelle." So, it's like, "Hey, Michelle.

Meet my wife, Michelle." And then they're like, "Oh, I'm Bob. Nice to meet you, Michelle." Or it's uh like make it a little more awkward of just like, "Uh, Michelle, meet um like like and then let it hang." Is that is that the &gt;&gt; Michelle I want to introduce you, right? Or something like that, you know, something like that. Or I want to introduce you to Michelle. You look at them in the eye, right? And then and then your wife be like, "Hi, I'm Michelle. Remind me your name or it's nice to meet you or whatever it ends up being." Look, I also for I actually have such a clinical problem on name face recognition that's actually runs in our family. I have this whole backstory which is part you know I worked at Facebook for a long time was really into it early on. No kidding. I think part of my early attraction to the platform was it was the first time you walk around college and you're like I know these people I just don't remember their names. You're like oh my god there's a resource I can study right like and this was like a very valuable social thing for me.

So I'm with you. I have the same problem I think a lot of people do. Okay, let's move on to conversations. Give us some tips. &gt;&gt; So, I mean on the conversations fronts, I mean I think the key again is to welcome people into the conversation. Like consider it, you know, there's especially you see this happen sometimes, especially when there's weird power dynamics at play. Um, you know, you'll see some famous VC or founder walk into the room and then some young startup person will like way them, right? And like kind of almost like flock them off, right? and they're like really excited to talk to this person, but you're like there's a bunch of people around and like the more you can be inclusive again, low heart rate, you're not like it's not a scarcity mindset, it's an abundance mindset. Like I think that's kind of like the the tone to think about in terms of like what a conversation is and like how to how to show up in a room and and meet with people. Um, you know, another really big one we we harp on a lot in the book in in kind of a bunch of the panels is like ask questions, but there's a limit, right?

So asking questions is great. you're coming in, it says, "Hey, hey, it's nice to meet you. Let me give you my fourminute startup spiel and everything I'm into D is like so self-centered. It kind of misses the point that a conversation is a is a give and a get and it should be an exchange." And so when you go in with a mindset of I should ask questions, that's great. There is doing it too much, right? Which is when it's done in a forced way. Sometimes I feel this. you'll meet someone and you feel like it's the inquisition or like all they're trying to do is extract information to you and giving you nothing in return, right? Like this happens sometimes. And so I think like again this is about balance. This is about low heart rate. I do think questions are a great tool to engage someone. But don't make it six questions in a row and make sure there's always in some ways a give to get right. Like if you can come in the best conversations are coming in, someone comes in and gives you an idea or has a point or sparks something then you have it's like a game of ping pong like then you can kind of react to and it goes back and forth where there's openness and they're playing with you not playing single player right is almost the way I would think about it in a conversation.

&gt;&gt; So the tip here so it's basically index towards asking questions but not like 100%. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Consider almost put it this way. Imagine you're playing pingpong, right? Or tennis or whatever you want. Like hit the ball back, right? That's the question, right? And they'll hit it back to you and then you hit it back to them, right? Like that's kind of what the flow should be. If you hit 10 balls at them in a row or like you know what I mean? Or like you know that that's kind of like not the vibe you want to go for. &gt;&gt; Yep. Awesome. Look, we talk a lot about matching matching vocabulary. You're going to meet a lot of different people. you know, you want to make people feel good and welcome. You know, I'm not saying that, you know, you should walk into a room and start talking in J, but like I am saying like if you're speaking to a university professor versus a 12-year-old, if they're using a certain level of vocabulary words, like again, the point is to meet people where they're at in a way that makes them feel relaxed and good, not try to like mirror them, if that makes sense.

But there is a subtlety that I think really matters to it. &gt;&gt; Cool. There's a few more I'll point out real quick. Um, connecting to this idea of asking questions, not trying to give your whole spiel constantly. This idea of leaving them wanting more. &gt;&gt; Yes, this is important. I mean, I think in the end of the day, like most interactions, let's you meet someone you're really interested or whatever. If we're being transactional about it, what's the real goal? The real goal is to leave people in a position where they're like, "Wow, that was a really interesting person. I'd love to hear from them again or meet with them again." Or maybe even better, every once in a while this will happen. like, "Wow, that's a really interesting person or idea." The person who walks across the room say, "Hey, you really should talk to Lenny. Talk to Sam." Like, that's kind of like you want to leave them being like, "That's interesting. I like to continue this or expand it." Not I just heard this entire person's life story. I never need to talk to them again, right? And so, I do think there's, you know, again, like leave them wanting more, right?

I think is important. And that that is partially about knowing when to excuse yourself gracefully as much as it is about when to enter. &gt;&gt; And again, this comes back to this idea of abundance. This isn't your one shot. you'll have other opportunities. Uh people don't want to feel like you're just on them just trying to &gt;&gt; I've had this conversation with so many and I think it's a uniquely American and honestly a uniquely Silicon Valley thing, right? I'll go I'll go so far as to say that which is look we're used to especially if you're young and these are big opportunities or big moments. People are kind of used to this like environment of scarcity. It like reminds me of the Eminem song where he talks about like a one shot one opportunity and I think it's Oh, Eminem. Yeah. It's a great song. It's a great song. &gt;&gt; Great beat. Every once in a while before a big presentation, you got to listen to it and pump yourself up, right? But like, but actually, again, in terms of putting people at ease and building relationships and etiquette, even if in your heart of hearts, you're like, "This really is my one shot." You kind of want to show up with the self-confidence and the calm of abundance, right?

Being like, "This is not going to be my only opportunity. This is an opportunity. I'm excited to be here. I'm engaged." Right? this is part of the story. This is not the entire story. And I think if you kind of remind yourself of that, you remind yourself that it's okay to not know everything, you keep focusing on low heart rate, engagement, eye contact, you get so much the way there. &gt;&gt; You also have a tip about how to handle famous people that you might meet. &gt;&gt; Uh I mean there's so many ways. I mean there's a bunch of tips about I think you know generally famous people but like I think there's this thing which is like not being sick of fantic is what I basically say but also like you not being ridiculous is almost the way I would frame it in this conversation right which the ridiculous is like if you go up to Mark Zuckerberg and everyone knows what he looks like and who he is and you're like hi I'm Sam and who are you like what are you doing like it's like ridiculous right on the other hand going up and being like you're the most important person I've ever met is wrong right and so there's a way Again, it's about grace as much as anything else, right?

And recognizing that they're people. And again, you're playing an iterative game. And the best thing you can do is say, "This is not my only," as much as it might actually be, "This is not my only opportunity to meet Mark." And in an ideal world, when I walk away, I'm like, "That was a pretty nice person. Like, maybe I want to talk to them again." Right? U now going up and being like, "I need your email address and phone number." It's like, "No, let let him offer it." You know, like that that type of stuff I think matters. Maybe one last tip is this. You actually start with this one of this line of great to see you when you meet someone versus like nice to see you guys. &gt;&gt; Well, again, Lenny, you and I probably use this all the time, I bet. Because I honestly, again, we go by name, face, whatever. It's really difficult social situation to put someone in it. Just think about from their perspective. If you go up to someone and say, "Hey, it's really great. It's great to meet you." And you're like, "We've met five times." It's like quite embarrassing, right?

And for them, for you, for everyone. the more I like love. In fact, I my wife my wife of many many years who I've dated since college has a really funny story about this which is the first time right before we started dating I went up to her and I basically did a nice to see you line right cuz and I very clearly couldn't remember if we had met before and we had and she remembered and so for me this is an important one right to keep in mind. &gt;&gt; My wife is constantly making fun of me of saying like oh like not knowing if I've met someone before or not. She's like, "How can you like I don't I don't know what to do with you." So, that's a great one. So, the line there is great to see you because it works whether you meet them or not. You &gt;&gt; Yeah. And again, it's one of those things where here's the thing. People aren't dumb. If you go around saying nice to see you to everyone, they're like there's a small percentage chance this person doesn't remind me who I remember who I am, right?

And there are other ways or but like that's okay. Like that's part of the etiquette dance to some degree is like that's fine. And what's not fine is it's so nice to meet you and like we've met six times, right? &gt;&gt; Yep. Okay. Um let's talk hygiene. There's a couple there that stood out to me. Uh tell me if I'm missing any that you think are really important. One is just like subtle fragrance. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Don't smell like right? Like it's like don't overpower it. You know, you shouldn't smell like you just douseed yourself in perfume, right? Or cologne or whatever it is. But like you also shouldn't smell bad, right? And like it's again, your scent should not be noticeable is almost the way I would put it. Um, you know, in any direction. Uh, it's it's not you're not there's there's there's no advantage to that is basically what I would say. &gt;&gt; By the way, this is a good uh question. Does this advice apply both equally to men and women? Is there anything that as maybe as we go through it? &gt;&gt; So, it's an interesting question. I think broadly in this book, the answer is broadly yes.

I will say that there is probably in January or February going to be a what's what we've internally been calling the fem etiquette course because my wife and other women have said this is good but there's a bunch of other stuff that women need to know. Um and so I I can't speak to that yet. I think the fragrance one I would say I don't think you want your fragrance to be memorable for anyone no matter what your gender is. &gt;&gt; Awesome. This is a good Let me take two t tangents here real quick. One is uh there I heard you told a story on your podcast about your kids and the impact this has had on them. Maybe share a story there. &gt;&gt; Well, I look here's the funny thing. I I literally have realized in doing this I love my children. They have terrible manners, right? And like there's certain things they're like not bad at, but broadly speaking, I have an 8-year-old, a six-year-old, and a four-year-old. And like I'm like, "Wow, you guys you guys eat like animals. Like you just, you know, you're you don't know how to use a fork or knife properly." Again, it's not like at four or six is not like stopping them well in life.

I'm like, you I can't be the etiquette guy if you guys are reading. Like, so I' I've been put and some of them has been really cute. Others have been really funny. Like my six-year-old has started standing whenever my wife comes to the table, which is kind of arcane um from an etiquette perspective. You can argue about whether it's actually even really etiquette anymore or not. But if you're being really formal, when a woman comes to the table, you stand right. It's very funny to have the the six-year-old do that. So, in our household, don't judge me yet, but in a year, you can judge me on my children's etiquette. It might have to be a children's etiquette book. &gt;&gt; So good. I think actually at the end you say that uh whenever anyone joins you for a meal, whether it's a man or woman, you stand up as like a modern way of thinking about &gt;&gt; that might be better is what I would say. I will say the it's a it's an ongoing somewhat hilarious debate at our dinner table. I'm just trying to get them to like not use a fork and knife like animals right now, but we're working on it.

We're working on it. &gt;&gt; I was just speaking that I was just listening to Tyler Cohen had Alex Allison Gopnik on Okay. podcast and she studies kids and she her whole thing is how kids learn like scientists and she has a whole thing about how they figure out how to use a fork by just like experimenting until something works &gt;&gt; right like to be clear they're able to feed themselves it works but it's like you look at it and it's like what are you doing &gt;&gt; yeah yeah okay the other tangent is you didn't share the uh class you actually taught to founders already so maybe share a little bit about this class you taught &gt;&gt; yeah so I mean the before the book we did a we did a class specifically initially for YC founders right uh partially because YC Gary's Tang got very mad about this. I'm like, "Well, now I have to do it, right?" Because that that's very funny. But um but um but yeah, we basically, you know, we gave them all certificates of completion, but we did a class. We hosted it was at the Four Seasons. We did some stuff that was fun and a little bit irreverent, like we had some very fancy wolves basher people come in with models and show talk about dress at different types of events and things like that, which was kind of tongue-in-cheek, but but a lot of fun.

Um, we also did like caviar and wine tasting type stuff, but then we also spent a lot of time focusing on like the actual meat of the matter, right? Which is things like how to show up with a low heart rate, how to have an abundance mindset, you know, basic skills like look people in the eye, shaking hands, you know, how to eat like that shows that you're being respectful, things like that. Um, &gt;&gt; why do you think Gary Tan was so mad at it? Is it because he's like this is a waste of time, not worth it, versus like just build a thing that's successful? &gt;&gt; Uh, I don't know. I mean, I don't really understand what makes Gary Tan mad and it's fine, but like from my perspective, I think, yeah, I think he's just like in some ways, again, to be clear, it's a little tongue and cheek. We're a little bit making fun of the fact that YC founders do come out a little bit like animals, right? There's like having met with many of them, and it's not their fault. They're like young kids. They've been holed up in a room coding and that's all they've been thinking about for months or whatever.

And so like when they show up at your office to pitch you and you know they get a coffee or something and then they like leave it on the table and don't ask you where to put it. It's a subtle sign of like not being aware of your broader environment that you may or may not know. But like I think it's valuable. Maybe they're like this is the wrong thing to focus on. I just think it's funny as much as anything else. &gt;&gt; I love it. Okay. So on the hygiene thing, is there anything else? &gt;&gt; I think the hygiene stuff I mean you should get the book. I think it's like fairly obvious hygiene stuff. like don't be covered in schmutz, you know what I mean? Like show respect. Try to anticipate how the room is going to be dressed and like don't massively overdress or underdress. It's like if you show up to a business casual thing in a tuxedo, you know, you're you're like you're kind of trying to stand out. Don't be memorable from that perspective, but you also don't want to be memorable in the other direction. It's like, wow, that that person like really has no respect for the room.

&gt;&gt; This actually you're getting into the next category, which is dress, which I'm excited about. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean dress like look I got to say again in terms of know the rules but don't always follow them. When I my first job out of college I was an associate at baiting company right this is like a consulting firm and there was like a business casual and I kind of came up with the snarky realization that there was a minimum dress code but there wasn't a maximum dress code. So, I started in the office as somewhat of a mini rebellion in the consulting firm, what we called tuxedo Tuesdays, where all the associates would wear tuxedos to work, which then meant we didn't have to go to the client meetings because they would never take us to client meetings and tuxedos. So, it's like a like, you know, again, you know, the rules to break them. It was fun. But I, you know, I do think from a dress perspective, again, I think the real thing is like look put together, look like you cared, look like you made some effort, but you don't don't overdo it is basically the upshot of the most simple way to dress.

Unless unless you're trying to very intentionally break a rule, right? Um, which maybe you are, but I think you should do that with a lot of cultural understanding. Let's put it that way. &gt;&gt; Uh, so here's a couple tips that I love. So, one is just dress one level up as a really simple tip. &gt;&gt; It's an easy way to win. Not two, not three, but one. &gt;&gt; And often times you can like reduce that. Like if you have a suit on, you could like take off the jacket and you're less a little less formal. &gt;&gt; Yeah, 100%. &gt;&gt; And then you talk about fit of the item versus the brand. &gt;&gt; 100%. Like like at the end of the day, fit is everything, right? I say this is again you guys all your listeners have to understand part of my joy at doing this is there is some level of hypocrisy in it, right? Because like but which is great. Like you got to have a little bit of that in your life in terms of how I myself behave sometimes. But look, in the end of the day, like a well-fitting $20 shirt is way better than a misfooting $500 shirt, right?

And candidly, like it's the same thing. It's like if you're a startup founder, you do want to kind of dress to the level of the room, but you kind of shouldn't show up in like like you shouldn't have a Rolex, right? It's like very classless, if that makes sense, to like show up as a startup founder with a Rolex, right? U it's just not again it goes back to heart rate, trying too hard. You know, you're not going to trick anyone, right? Is the upshot, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. The spit of our brand and just expensiveness of the item is such a big one that I think is I think people don't realize just like it could be a pretty cheap thing that if you get tailored in some small way it just looks so much better even if it's not the highest quality item. &gt;&gt; 100%. I mean again I I would put put differently think about the average person not every person in the world but the average person in the world can look at a suit and be like intuitively that seems like it fits the person or doesn't. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Most people can have no idea what things cost, right?

Like if you said like, you know what I mean? Like it's just not. And like so in some ways it's this weird thing where it's like if you show up at a super misfitting but very expensive item, you're like what signal are you setting? It's like, well, you're not very aware, right, culturally, you're not like matching the room. You're not showing a lot of sensitivity like to the situation, what people actually can prioritize. And it's like, are you trying to impress me because you have a fancy outfit? Like what what are we talking about? One other tip you have is if you're not sure the level of dress just ask. Yeah, this is a big thing in general which is I think people are afraid to ask in all sorts of situations you know down to like which forks should I use you know you know or what's the expect like it is absolutely fine to ask in fact if anything it shows a level of confidence and calm and humility to ask if you don't know right so I actually think this is a great example there's absolutely nothing wrong with asking about dress about etiquette about expectations you know I don't again it goes back to this whole give to get.

If you get someone on the phone and you ask them a hundred questions about etiquette, at a certain point you're like there's no that's not a p game of ping pong. Like you're not g but like it's totally fine to call be like hey like what's you know what's this going to look like? And by the way it's important because in New York versus San Francisco there's different expectations like people do do things differently and like your job you're you're not expected to to know every nuance of every culture you might enter. So maybe as a final question in dress, do you have any just I don't know tips for dressing well? I know this is a big question that a professional spend time teaching and charging for. I really, you know, I think the answer is find someone in your universe who you think dresses well and again ask them for help and like what makes sense if that makes you know from that perspective. Again the welltailored great the that makes a lot of sense. the like basics I can say yeah like have jeans that are clean right and like fit you things like that but again when my wife listens to this podcast episode and hears me being asked about specifics of dress she's going to she's going to be chuckling great that's a win okay let's talk about dining some advice for uh etiquette during dining &gt;&gt; tip well right uh don't don't not tip Don't tip badly, you know, don't be super stingy about, you know, okay, who ordered the flambe, you know, like split bills evenly.

Make things easy for waiters. Um, in general, it's don't order the most expensive thing on the menu. Does it really matter? Especially to like an investor. Do they really care? No, they don't really care, but they do notice and you're like, ah, you're the type of person that like is truly insensitive to what things cost, even if it doesn't actually matter, right? So, I think there are things like that. same wine like and then I think look in the terms of asking ideally don't order first right because I think if you see how someone like are we doing starters like what like what how long is this meal going to be like there's a lot of times in dining situations you don't know and the more you let someone else set the tone and then match that tone the better like you kind of want to go middle of the pack to last if that makes sense. Uh &gt;&gt; so this yeah so this in the situation if someone takes you out to dinner like it's a VC another found like someone invites you &gt;&gt; partner or whatever whatever it is. Yeah. And look, I I think I always say in terms of this, which I obviously think is important, is like look, within reason, always offer to pay.

Now, you should be turned down, right? If you go out with a VC, right, and you're like, you know, you put a card down, 99% of the time, they be like, I got this. Like, please, like, this is don't worry about it, right? And like that's the right vibe on it. You do not need to do this if it's a $10,000 dinner. or if they've ordered a super expensive bottle of wine, like there there are limits to this, right? But if you go out to a normal dinner in a normal situation, you don't offer to split it. You just offer to pay for it, right? And then, you know, you should be declined on that. But there is a little bit of a risk there because someone might not decline you and then you kind of are on the hook for it. But that is, I think, the the polite thing and the polite way to approach it. &gt;&gt; What if they're just like a like a billionaire? I just had dinner with like a very successful VC and I did not feel like offering to pay made sense. Would you still Yeah. I actually would I think it depends what the dynamic is.

If the billionaire ordered a $10,000 bottle of wine, you don't need to offer, right? If you had a normal meal, right, I actually think it's great to offer. And they'll almost certainly be like, "Of course not." Right? Um &gt;&gt; but I will say, you know, I'll tell you a funny story, which is like when you go out to with dinner to really fancy people, right? Or like someone who's like you're, you know, there are two interesting dynamics. One is it's actually I think especially nice to offer and even sometimes pay because the reality is if you think about it they obviously don't care about the money but no one does that right like they're like well clearly you should pay and so the more you're like oh no like like I'm treating us like this is a conversation in equals and like I'd love to offer or just pay as big. The second thing which is important is if you're especially if you're out to dinner with someone who's very very well-known, you have to tip like crazy because the problem is this is like one thing. This is like a this is not in the book.

This is like a 2011 course, right? But if you go out with someone like, okay, they're either known or relatively known and you're making the gesture of buying it. Not cuz they obviously don't care about the money. It's more like the gesture that's nice that you would offer that. you kind of have to tip the way they would tip and they're gonna tip like a 100% of the bill, right? Because like it's just like the right thing to do. And so I do think you like if you're gonna do that, you really have to tip well. Got it. Speaking of tipping, my god, I hate tipping so much as a concept. Like obviously people deserve to be paid well. And I love that you know they make more money, but it's just so convoluted and just like what the hell do I do? I never know. &gt;&gt; Tip a lot. &gt;&gt; Tip a lot. Okay. &gt;&gt; Just tip a lot. Like I think 10 20% is the minimum. Like if you're out in like a a situ, you know, I think you kind of want to tip in my mind &gt;&gt; to the level of no one you're effectively paying for would bat an eye that you're being stingy is the way I would think about it.

20% feels like the minimum. 30% sometimes like more seems a little bit silly, but it's not it is a squirrely topic and I just I don't again let me put it this way. I don't think you want your tip to be memorable is almost way to put it. like this is not a thing to focus on when you think when the person that you're out to dinner with thinks back on their dinner on the dinner a month later they want to think about the content of the conversation or what the ideas were or the business opportunity they want to think about oh my god that guy tipped an incredible amount what was that and by the way I I have stories in my own life where like I've been out with people and they've tipped like so much that like a decade later I remember it and I'm like that's fine they can afford it like it's like cool that they did that for the server but Honestly, the only thing I remember for the night is how much the person tips. &gt;&gt; So you're just Okay, but I think if you're like extremely rich, do you do it?

Don't even tell anyone basically, but feel free to do it obviously. &gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. I mean, you don't really The tip is not a point. The tip is like everyone should feel good about it, right? Like and like again, there's about it's about again putting people in a sense of ease and comfort and you might not like it and it might not be fair in the world, but people are like everyone's being taken care of. I can be relaxed about this is kind of what you're going for. I recommend your next book after this fem ficit fee uh edition is a tipping guide. &gt;&gt; A tipping guide. Well, you know what would be funny is there's a great episode of um Seinfeld. It's all about the tipping calculator. I don't know if you're a Seinfeld guy. &gt;&gt; I love Seinfeld. I don't remember. &gt;&gt; There's a great tipping There's a great tipping episode. I feel like you could honestly like have a very funny like modern LLM app that is only about tipping. Like imagine like a tipping app where it's like &gt;&gt; it's like instead of a tipping calculator, you take a picture of the bill, &gt;&gt; geolocates where you are, you kind of give it you're like this is the situation and it's like it just tells you what to tip.

&gt;&gt; Well, what like the tip like a restaurant's one thing, but then it's like the garbage person, &gt;&gt; uh a gardener, the &gt;&gt; especially especially this end of year like we're at the end of year like I I think no one knows how to tip anymore. &gt;&gt; It's so like Yeah. Some guy that like installs the shades in our house. Do I &gt;&gt; Do you I don't think you tip that person. I I actually Do you tip that person? &gt;&gt; No, I I did not cuz that just because we already paid a bunch of money for this thing. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I I feel like that is weird. I wouldn't tip &gt;&gt; people like that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's that's why we need this book. This is You're going to make it's going to be a huge hit. &gt;&gt; We could fund it. You want to fund it with me? We should fund an app. Talk about YC companies. If someone pitched me in the terms of funny but real. If someone pitched me the 2026 AIdriven tipping calculator, &gt;&gt; which gives the social situation and the details and the all the things and it's like this is how much to tip.

That is hilarious and probably quite useful &gt;&gt; and probably not venture scale but I don't care. I &gt;&gt; 2026 it might be you know everyone has the problem. Everyone globally has the same problem which is tipping. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Just the tokens uh cost of that. It actually reminds me I'm reading one of my sons right now the third book of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy &gt;&gt; and I don't know if you've read the series. It's important. Do you remember about the what's Bristoatics mathematics? So basically the idea is that after the improbability drive the way they're able to move across the universe is the most complicated math in the universe which is the math of your bill at a restaurant. So I think we're on to something. It's in science fiction. Oh man. What other tip that I just thought of as around dining is you had this tip about somales. Give them a sip of your wine if you order something. &gt;&gt; Yeah. If you if you order something nice that I'll be very clear again in terms of &gt;&gt; I don't order a very nice wine. Yeah. &gt;&gt; No somalier really cares what I'm drinking.

But if you are doing that or you're into it, which is great again like think about being generous, right? If they're like, "Oh, I would love to taste that." Like a taste. It's great. &gt;&gt; I love that. I would love to do that. That sounds really nice. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. And one other tip here. I wrote down uh B for bread, D for drinks. Tell explain that. &gt;&gt; Oh, BD, you just got to look at your hands, right? B's and D's for so which was your bread plate. Uh right, is kind of the way to think about it. And look, people get this wrong all the time. You sit down at a big table, right? And you're like, uh, which is mine? You're kind of waiting for someone to pick it up and kind of do the math. I'm like, okay, that's my bread. Um, but that's the B and D is useful. Uh, also like look, forks and knives, like just knowing what side they go on, knowing one guy always drives me nuts. um that kind of goes is related is the knife blade goes in, right? People when they put their knives down, right, the knife blade goes in for because you know like you don't want to like stab your partner next to you, but like it was really funny.

I had an entrepreneur, this is not yet a product thing. People started sending me videos of them like dining or situations and ask for feedback, right? And I recently had to give feedback to an entrepreneur who's like, "You did a very nice job eating your soup. Good job. Your napkin should have been in your lap." And your knife is pointed the wrong way. &gt;&gt; Okay. Napkin actually. Okay. So, napkin and lap. &gt;&gt; Napkin and lap. Not at your neck, &gt;&gt; not off to the side, you know. Napkin &gt;&gt; I saw someone once had a napkin on just one leg versus both legs. Any opinion there? &gt;&gt; I mean, I don't think you want your napkin placement to be memorable. &gt;&gt; That's kind of my biggest thing is like these are not the point about etiquette is that it gets you out of the way, right? It shouldn't be memorable. &gt;&gt; Like the Kindle, you don't want to think about the technology. &gt;&gt; No, just you just let the conversation flow. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Okay. Amazing. Okay. Uh, speaking of conversation, small talk and humor, give us some tips. &gt;&gt; Here's the thing. Humor is great. I love humor.

It can be overdone. And again, it shouldn't be the point of things. And also, I'd say humor is quite conditional and subtle to the to the audience. So, like in the the room you're in, dirty jokes, right? Do you tell a dirty you don't want to tell a dirty joke in the wrong room. uh you but I think the thing the thing about humor is it kind of there's this interesting subtlety to why it's so useful in social studies which is one it kind of shows you the ultimate mastery of a social situation if you're able to tell a joke which is right up the line or even pushes it one degree to show your own comfort in the space right it's the ultimate demonstration of comfort in a space is to tell a joke that's a little over the line or a little off color but not too off color it's like the ultimate thing so like if you're really in it and like feeling good using humor is great. You should not be remembered as only the comedian. And again, like the level of jokes that you're playing with is like a very subtle thing, right?

So, you don't want to tell a knockk knockock joke, right? When like with adults, right? But the off-color sex joke that is hilarious, you you you got to be pretty confident before you tell it, right? In space. Uh the last thing you want, like a joke that everyone laughs at is great. a joke that no one laughs at is a hu it's like a huge risk maneuver. You've failed, right? And like it's not the point. So, it's a great tool. I love it. Like I think everyone should have their file of jokes. I do. I don't know about you, but like I have like a Evernote. It's not Evernote anymore. It's like a bear of like my favorite jokes and I they're loosely ranked and from least offensive to most offensive. Um because like I forget the jokes, but like you know, you kind of want to use humor sparingly and smartly. &gt;&gt; This is your next book. This list of jokes. &gt;&gt; List of jokes. ranked by like social situation and like level of extremess. &gt;&gt; Everyone's going to be telling these same jokes. &gt;&gt; Oh man. &gt;&gt; Well, there is a there is a funny joke about that, right?

Which is the whole the prisoners. I won't even tell it. It's a funny there's a funny joke about people who know all the jokes. &gt;&gt; I'll leave it at that. I'll leave you hanging and wanting more for our next podcast conversation. &gt;&gt; Abundance. Okay. Uh you also recommend self-deprecating uh as a &gt;&gt; make fun of yourself, not other people. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, that's it's just like you can make fun of yourself as much as you want, right? Um, again, making fun of other people shows an incredible level of familiarity, right? And if it's if it, you know, if you're there with your business partner and you're really feeling the vibe and you again, it can be quite effective, but the second it feels disparaging or people aren't on the same wavelength, it's a very high-risisk maneuver. Making fun of yourself is always fun. Here's a puzzle for you. What do OpenAI, Cursor, Perplexity, Verscell, Platt, and hundreds of other winning companies have in common? The answer is they're all powered by today's sponsor, Work OS. If you're building software for enterprises, you've probably felt the pain of integrating single signon, skim, arbback, audit logs, and other features required by big customers.

Work OS turns those deal blockers into drop-in APIs with a modern developer platform built specifically for B2B SAS. Whether you're a seedstage startup trying to land your first enterprise customer or a unicorn expanding globally, work OS is the fastest path to becoming enterprise ready and unlocking growth. They're essentially Stripe for enterprise features. Visit workos.com to get started or just hit up their Slack support where they have real engineers in there who answer your questions super fast. Workos allows you to build like the best with delightful APIs, comprehensive docs, and a smooth developer experience. Go to work os.com to make your app enterprise ready today. &gt;&gt; Also, so you said you had this kind of list of jokes that you because I I can't remember. I have zero jokes in my head that I'm like, "Okay, here I'm going to get one." So, I should make a list. &gt;&gt; Make a list. I I got some good ones for you. &gt;&gt; Okay, I'll have to borrow some. Uh, you also recommend having some stories, some crowd-pleasery kind of stories to tell. &gt;&gt; Yeah, you want to have some easy stories that again, like it shouldn't be 10 minutes, right?

But again, I think the thing about is like imagine that the whole game in these social settings again is putting other people at ease, making them feel like you understand them and the room and you're a trustworthy person and on the same wavelength. And in some ways, think about it as like who's carrying the conversation. It shouldn't be your monologue. You shouldn't force them to monologue either, right? And that's where questions come in and back and forth having a fun build on story. They tell a story, you have a story to tell. Like again, I really think of it as like a conversation or these social interactions is a pingpong game, right? And like you kind of want to have a few of those in your arsenal. &gt;&gt; Your last tip in that section was how to wind down a conversation. Just the importance of realizing it's time to wind down. Any tips for how to do that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, just like when the conversation is over, gracefully leave basically the upshot. You people the worst is like the conversation ends and the person just stands there and you're like, uh, I'm going to go get a drink, you know, or do you want And then every once in a while the person will be like you're like if someone says to you in a conversation they wind it down.

It's like I'm going to go grab a drink. Most of the time that is not an invitation to say like I'd love one too and follow them to the bar, right? Like that that is not. So like I just think you have to kind of recognize the signs effectively when the moment is passing or it's time to move on etc. Um and then like respect it. Uh that's what I would say. &gt;&gt; I I use that one all the time. Is there is there any other ways you find useful to wind down a conversation? just going to get out of a conversation. &gt;&gt; Well, I I think I think the other thing people do frequently, which again is totally fine if done respectfully, is bring someone else into the conversation, right? Like in some ways like give them their next partner, you know, be like, "Oh, like I've enjoyed this conversation. It's super cool. You know, you know, by the way, have you met Steve? Let's go meet Steve. Go talk to Steve for a bit." Right? And like I'll pick you back up. I'm gonna Okay, I'm going to go say hi to my wife.

You know, like there there's ways to handle it again. Like the key though is subtlety on these things, right? Like I think in all things like you want to basically let people feel respected as much as anything else. So if you if you're too overt about it, right? Um you don't give them even if everyone kind of knows what's going on, the key is to give them like plausible deniability to themselves and the community effectively that like we've wound down this conversation. So you have to kind of look for the signs. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. Uh there's four more sections. Uh the next one is scheduling etiquette. Give us some advice. Oh, well, like I think I'd like to say that I'm fairly famous for hating Calendarly. Um, there was a I actually I I think I'm not overstating it when saying there was a period where Calendarly where I personally had driven most of their growth for the month. I got messages from the board because I went on this diet tribe about how much I hate Countly and how disrespectful it is. And apparently this was such an internet fervor. I got like millions of engagements that meaningfully drove their month.

Um, thank no bad press. &gt;&gt; No bad press. No bad tweets. Yeah. So, I think like look, there's a few obvious ones. When you're make sure you have availability, you know, like if you ask someone to schedule with you, it's not always wrong to be like here's my availability or here's a link, but like make it real. Like you have to give them real options. You know, the default I really strongly believe the default should not be calendarly. The default in most situations, especially if you recognize the power hierarchy, the busyiness hierarchy. If you're the less senior person, if you are the less busy person, you should let the other person tell you when they're free and then make it work on your end, right? Uh is what I would say. And it's fine if the first thought doesn't work, but the one of the first three really needs to, right? So, I think that like in some ways that it's important to kind of respect that it's better to ask what they can do and then move your schedule. If you really can't and you're going to use a scheduling agent or something, it just needs to actually have real options is basically I think a thing that comes up all the time.

Um, look, rescheduling happens. When you do it, give notice as much as possible. Uh, once you're asking for rescheduling, you need to be even more accepting of what the other person can do, right? I think is really important. Like if you're asking to reschedule, you basically within reason need to make it work for them, right? Uh, is what I would say. And then look, I I think like there's like obvious stuff that people should know but sometimes forget. Like time zones are really tricky. People screw them up all the time. Check. It's it's worth the extra check to make sure you're not both scheduling uh you're getting the numbers right but then also really importantly scheduling at like reasonable times like sometimes people like I want to meet at this time you're like you're on EST you're that's like 4 in the morning for me right and so like I think being respectful of that and just asking I think is super important it's not rocket science it's important last point I make which you make in the book is like you really need to respect EAS and PAS and the whole people like this is the the number one look way to look extreme extremely classless is to not respect people who are helping the other person, right?

U like this is like the number one thing. Now, you don't need to be so overthe-top ex like you don't want to overdo it, but there should be this deep well of like respect for anyone who's helping you, whether that's a server or a PA or an EA or whatever there. This needs to come with an extra gesture of respect. That means saying thank you when they schedule and like following up with them and things like that. There's a I'll tell a story. When we were selling our company to Airbnb, we had this guy helping us sell the company and he made it a big point to build a good relationship with the EA and office manager at Airbnb because they if they like you, they'll it helps it helps you get the thing. &gt;&gt; Make the general story of like make the gatekeepers happy and like you is true, but I I I do think there ways to overdo that for what it's worth. It becomes almost too transactional. if you show up with flowers for the EA, you know, like you better be damn confident like in what you're doing, if that makes sense.

But yeah, um just like the small things go a long way. Like you just, you know, make eye contact with them, thank them, respect them, you know, ask, you know, if if they bring you a coffee cup, ask them where to put it when you're done. Like don't treat people who you might and who feel like the team or the staff feel that way. Make them feel like part of the team at equals. The Kalanly stuff. I feel like that's its own separate book of Calendarly etiquette. &gt;&gt; Yeah, the look the Calendarly is one of my favorite my favorite episodes of going hyper viral on something hilarious. &gt;&gt; So, one thing that Cali does is you can like embed I don't do this yet, but I should. It feels like just embedding your times in the email feels like a good &gt;&gt; Look, I'll be honest. I go the other way. Like I I really um I don't use any of that stuff like um and and look, I think scheduling is like very complicated. This is part of it is you know I always think of these like when are you free? It totally depends on who's asking.

if Barack Obama or I don't know, I won't say Donald Trump, someone wants to meet with me and it's like four in the morning my time, right? Or like I'm totally news. You know what? I'm gonna make it work, right? And like so I do think like I'm actually kind of against the like flat hierarchy. All meetings are the same. That does mean honestly I think you probably knock me is like my bet is that my calendar moves more than most people's and I'm sure that feels disrespectful to some and it is like I want to be really clear but it's also the reality of trying to balance these things. &gt;&gt; The other uh flaw with Calendarly I've realized someone once figured out my Calendarly URL and just booked a meeting with me like a founder wanting to pitch me and then I was like it was on my calendar. Like &gt;&gt; the funny one I've had is there are people whose names are very similar to other people I know &gt;&gt; and every once in a while I've ended up like accepting a cold meeting and showing up being like you are not the person I expected because it's like I was like oh your name is off by one letter &gt;&gt; that's cool &gt;&gt; that's not a thing to call out by the way from an etiquette perspective once you're committed to the meeting you're doing the meeting even if it's the wrong person.

Oh man. Okay. Uh well one last question with calendarly. Something I try to do curious to get your take is like okay someone want like a founder. I'm meeting with a founder and uh I'm the way I approach it is like okay do you have a calendarly or or something I could use to book a meeting with you? If not in parenthesis here's my calendarly in case that might make it easier. &gt;&gt; Yeah I think that's perfectly fine. Right. In terms of the way to do it I just think again the key is to make it easy for the person you're trying to do business with. Right. &gt;&gt; And not make Yeah. And that make them feel like they have to do the work if they don't want to. &gt;&gt; No, you do the work. Like basically, you're asking for something, you do the work is the upshot. &gt;&gt; Okay, sweet. Moving on to the next topic. Communication. Don't use emojis. &gt;&gt; Try to proofread your stuff. Get to the point quickly. Assume the person you're reading is busy. Like, again, I I think these are all the types of things that like none of this is rocket science from my perspective.

But people, it's just good to remember, right? And be on top of it. Um, you know, I I I I do think people have different things on this. I personally do think that on things like email, you kind of do have an SLA to respond. There's some people I know who are like, "Email does not mean I have to respond. You send me an email, you may or may not get a response. It's completely up to me. I have no contract to respond to your email." I I personally go the other way, which is I feel like from an etiquette perspective, like I don't owe you a 12-page essay, but I do owe at least an acknowledgement quickly, right, of what you've sent? Like you don't want to leave people hanging. But again, I don't I just think it's like if you read an email, I'm sorry, if you write an email, imagine you're receiving it. How does it feel? Right? Does it feel like you're asking a ton of the person you sent it to? If you send them 10 paragraphs, it's annoying, right? You're like, "Okay, I have to read all this. What am I going to find time?

Like this is like you're asking a lot. It's kind of like a monologue in a conversation. You've just said I'm going to spend 10 minutes talking at you, right? And so I do think keeping it short and to the point, you know, not being silly, not using emoji, trying to make it readable, like these are all important things. &gt;&gt; Say more about the emoji piece. Like is your advice just no emojis if it's a business? &gt;&gt; I think emojis emoji from my perspective is very it's like a it's like quite a step of familiarity if that makes sense. If you uh from a business context, like look, if someone sends you a smiley face, you can respond with it. Like you can kind of like match. Again, it goes back to this matching vocabulary and language. Like I'm not saying you should be totally cut and dry, but it's kind of I would say emojis almost feel like jokes to me, which is like tell them at your own risk and they're probably not worth it, you know? &gt;&gt; Awesome. Okay. I do use emojis. I use like the the thank you hands one a lot.

And &gt;&gt; look, I think text is different. I think people might have slightly different takes on this and so I wouldn't say anything I'm saying here is dogmatic but I'm just saying that like again emojis are not highly legible to most people. They can mean lots of different things. They usually have cultural connotation to them and like I would say that like they're kind of harder to read than just a well-worded simple to the point email. Um and I think you just want to come across as like a literate to the point simple clear person. An emoji sometimes kind of implies used AI to generate this thing because JGBD loves emojis. Totally. I also like look I mean there's a whole we want to get you want to get spicy for a second. &gt;&gt; Yes. I don't know how I feel about people who have like invested too much in their emojis, right? So you get people who have like changed the colors of their emojis from the default or whatever. I'm not saying not to do it. I'm just saying it's quite a statement is my view that you've invested in your emoji pack or like using special emojis people haven't seen before or like it's like again it's a subtlety and you got to understand the room and like the culture and like what you're responding to.

But I I I do think that people read more into that than people want to be read into it. &gt;&gt; You know what's crazy now? I don't know if you've seen this. You can like create your own emojis now in iOS and emojis are so &gt;&gt; it's like a whole new world. just in &gt;&gt; again it's like if you choose to use those you are going way out on a limb right that people are going to be receptive to that and not be like this is a person who spends a lot of their time customizing their emoji pack when they probably should be doing something more interesting &gt;&gt; they should be finding product market fit &gt;&gt; yeah or learning etiquette &gt;&gt; the other tip you had that I loved which is uh think about the order of the emails when you're emailing somebody &gt;&gt; yeah I I do think you kind of want to think about you There is a connotation to who you send it to and who you CC and the order in which people know now I you know I don't want to like overstate this but put differently it's like if you're sending an email and the first person on the email is the assistant and the fourth person on the email is a CEO you've probably done it wrong &gt;&gt; and because the implication there is you who you think is most important comes first like who's first to put to mind &gt;&gt; who are you really sending this to you know what I mean is almost the way I think and like who's kind of included so like if I look at an email and I'm the first person in the two, right?

Candidly, I I mildly pay more attention to it than when I'm the fifth, right? Because in my head, I'm like, "Okay, well, like &gt;&gt; this is really to Kevin and like I'm on it." Like if you see an email sent to many many many people, almost by definition, it's not that important, right? Is almost the way I would put it. And so, you have to be really careful with manage that. I think even the the who do you send it to and who do you CC, there's a language to that that like from an etiquette perspective to understand, right? And like I I do think people sometimes miss that. Like the CC line is very very valuable. It means, hey, you should have a copy of this. This is not really to you. I'm not expecting an immediate response, right? I even think there's even a subtlety like who responds then. Like if you send an email to 10 people CCD to the whole nine yards, you know, there is a subtle etiquette to like when you respond. Like if you are the fifth CC on an email, you're not expected to be the first response.

Again, you can break this rule. Like, there are times to break it. There's a subtlety to it, but it wasn't really sent to you, right? Like, and so there's a whole language to who you send to and who you CC and the order that like again, it's very subtle, but is worth understanding. &gt;&gt; So true, man. And you would think nobody sees all these little things in the Gmail thread, but you do. They're just right there. see them. And I think people, this is the whole thing about etiquette is like it's all this invisible stuff &gt;&gt; that you don't need to spend like all in some ways the whole story of doing this well is it should not occupy 80% of your brain, right? What you're saying is I've got this, we're on the same wavelength, my heart rate is low, I'm doing it properly, and I'm doing it with like intuitively almost, right? Which is a hard ask, right? Because what we're basically saying is like these are unknown things, but intuitively you should just know them. And that is actually what you're signaling is like you can trust me because intuitively there's this well of knowledge and cultural connection and whatever that we can we can share effectively.

&gt;&gt; And if uh your BCC definitely do not reply all. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean I I have some unbelievably funny faux paws from my history with CCBC 2 lines. Um I one of the worst etiquette slash mistakes I ever made. Never ever ever put someone you're talking about who's not on an email in the two line to check the spelling of their name and then hit send. That's a bad idea, right? So, whatever you're doing, that's not even an etiquette thing. That's just like a being smart. &gt;&gt; Proof reading thing. &gt;&gt; Proofread. Proof read and don't send emails to people about them that they're not supposed to see. &gt;&gt; And it's like Gmail makes it too easy to do that because it adds them automatically if you like talk. No, for me it was more just like the way to check the spelling of someone's name is not to put them in the two field ever. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Oh, bad. Okay. Oh, man. Well, you're still you're still kicking, so bad. &gt;&gt; I'm still kicking. &gt;&gt; Great. Okay. Uh, two more. Uh, meeting etiquette. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, again, we've talked about arriving a little bit early.

You should do that. Don't arrive up too too early. Like, you shouldn't again like if you're an hour early, walk around the block. It's fine to walk around the block. You don't want to sit in someone's office because then all of a sudden it feels like this person has been here a long time. Like this feels like even though they're not scheduled, like we're leaving them hanging. You're six coffees deep with the receptionist. Like you don't want that, right? Like uh so I think you want to be like 10 to 15 minutes early. You do not want to be much earlier than that. Um we talked about meeting other convenience. I do think it's fine to start with a little bit of small talk, right? uh you know there are times it's not or times people running behind but like the pleasantry of like the weather is nice or how was your weekend or like something that kind of cuts cuts the air a little bit and then you kind of flip into business is like a good thing even though it like feels transparent is still useful right is what I would say uh to kind of like and again it's it's almost a signal of like I am here for business but I'm like a normal person and like I'm willing to have like a norm you're like signaling like oh I know that we should start with a normal conversation if that makes sense.

Right. &gt;&gt; I don't know if you saw this on Twitter. Someone described small talk as like the TCP IP act handshake. &gt;&gt; I love it. It's a great description. I always I always describe it as like imagine the modem crash from when we were kids on a 144, you know, like that old modem crash. Like that's that's what small talk is. It's a modem crash. We're trying to hit the wavelengths, you know, etc. is like &gt;&gt; so that you're ready to talk so that you're ready to really communicate. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. um for meetings, virtual ones, camera on. Like, and again, I say this as someone who sometimes violates this, right? I violate it knowingly. I violate it knowing what it costs me, but you really should have your camera on, right? Um and again, like you should dress appropriately for a video call. You should have an appropriate background. You know, if you have your bed in your background, it should be nicely made. You know what I mean? Like, in some ways, it's like doing the easy stuff is the key in some way. And I I go a step further. I actually, this is this is less a hard rule.

I actually really don't love virtual backgrounds for the same reason. I'm like, look, I'm not going to judge you if you're in your bedroom, if you're a startup founder. It's fine, but I would like to see that your bed is made or like I'll give you another one that's classic that I see with founders all the time. Close your closet. Like people will get on Zoom calls and you'll be on a call and like their closets open. And I'm like it's not a big deal, but like do you see your own self picture here? Like can you just close your closet? I don't want to see your shirts, you know? Like that that type of stuff I think goes further than people realize. &gt;&gt; Awesome. Uh one other tip you had was clean up after yourself if you're in a real meeting. This is actually the easiest way &gt;&gt; and this, by the way, is for my partner Kevin Collard, but the easiest way to come off badly is to not offer to put your coffee cup in the kitchen, right? And like honestly, we do this like we because like if you think about it, we work for LPs, limited partners, right?

Like that's who we raise money from and then deploy it from. And my partner Kevin, even more than me, has this thing, which is he is maniacal about this, which is no matter who's in the room, if we're with an LP, you take the coffee, you take the diet coke, even if you know full well someone's going to come in and clean it back for you, and you make a point of asking where we can put it or putting on the side table, etc., and acknowledging that there is a mess. I feel that. Final topic is exiting and leaving. What are some tips? &gt;&gt; You should stand when people leave the table, right? Not ridiculously, by the way. you should go stand with the table. Stand to shake hands. Don't be sitting when you're shaking hands. It's just what you do, right? And like it shows that you're aware of it. Um follow up with gratitude. Like you should send people thank you notes. Even if they shouldn't be long, they shouldn't be ridiculous, but like we met, I got something out of it. Like thank you for taking your time is like always appreciated.

Uh is what I would say. Um obviously there's stuff like don't take calls, etc. Like this is kind of like the kind of obvious stuff in terms of exiting and how you think about it. Like even if someone if someone rings you, right, and you're like and the meeting's over and you're over time, you're like, I got to pick up this call. You hit the button says, I'm calling you right back and then walk away. Don't just pick up the phone and like wave, you know, is what I would say. Um yeah, and I I think like there's stuff like that um that I would just keep in mind. &gt;&gt; They also had like don't make a production if you're exiting, just like just leave. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, again, I don't like, &gt;&gt; you know, Yes. I think that's really true. It's I mean there there's even a point to like there are lots of scenarios where I think an Irish goodbye is the best goodbye, but you just kind of disappear. Like any large group setting I think is great. Maybe you thank one person on the way out of the host, right?

But like you know the the I am leaving now, right? Like let me kind of say goodbye to everyone and hug everyone. It's too much. It's too much. &gt;&gt; I love that. Okay, we got through everything. Is there anything else that you think might be important to share? &gt;&gt; There's so much other stuff. I mean, again, I go back to this whole thing, which is like, you know, these are all fun tips. I love the cartoons. We iterated on them a bunch. We have more to do. Like, I we're having a lot of fun with this, and I think it is providing a lot of value to people, which is great. Like, that's kind of my goal is to both have fun and actually provide value and help people. &gt;&gt; That intersection is great. There's a thousand other tips and like so for the biggest thing for me is when you have more or think of them, send them to us cuz like there'll be a second version of the book and then a third and like I actually really want to like cite the people who contribute to it. Like the book is what like 50 60 pages.

It will be a few hundred eventually and I think there's a lot more to come and we're going to be doing classes next year all over the country and actually world. We'll be we got we invited to do we're going to do one in Tel Aviv. &gt;&gt; Wow. &gt;&gt; We're going to do one uh we're certainly doing one in New York and a few other places and you know it'll be fun. &gt;&gt; This is uh oh my god you got a whole new life forming here. I I you know the funny thing is this stuff the etiquette story is obviously pretty fun and so like think people like Morning Brew who just like keep making videos about this and like there's this whole etiquette thing going on and I'm like oh my god I've done some pretty good investments in my life built some cool products am I going to be ultimately remembered as like the etiquette guy that's kind of hilarious that's what we're doing here I'm into it I'm fine with that &gt;&gt; so I'll read you have the TLDDR at the beginning I'll just read this real quick and add anything that we're missing so this is just like what to do if you do nothing else Remember the goal of all etiquette is essentially building trust and project genuine confidence.

Uh always maintain an abundance mindset. Remember that you are worthy and have nothing to prove and that it's okay to ask questions and keep your heart rate low. That's the points. If nothing else, if you remember those points, you will you will be served well. &gt;&gt; There we go. Okay, I'm going to take us to close out make this more of a regular episode. I'm going to take us to two recurring segments on the podcast. AI Corner and Contrarian Corner. I don't know if I told you I was going to ask you these questions, but lay it on me. I love cultur depends what you mean by that. &gt;&gt; So the question in AI corner is just what's one way you found AI useful in your work or life that might be helpful for people to hear. &gt;&gt; So look, I'm by default pretty skeptical of most AI applications. I will say the thing that I've had the most fun with with the AI and I find great is actually partially where the cartoons for this came from is I built a little personal news aggregator called letter meme that basically takes all the newsletters I don't have time to read and turns them into daily cartoons like so I have a grid of like what's going on in the world as a front page in cartoons and I actually love it.

It's like the best way I get an overview because there's all these smart newsletters. You don't have time to read any of them. So, I pipe them all in &gt;&gt; except keep going. &gt;&gt; And what except of course that one I don't put in the aggregator. Although, &gt;&gt; of course, I don't do that. Um, but uh it's great. Uh, so I'm super into uh into it. Uh, &gt;&gt; and that's letter meme.com. Check it out. I love this. I love this. So, this is AI generated. Aggregates all the important newsletters and creates a little summary and a cartoon. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And you can make your own. So, like for me, I actually I'm looking at this now. There's actually one thing that got messed up on this we need to change. But the uh yeah, the the uh the idea is you basically get an email digest once a day and it's continuously updated like what's going on in the world and you pipe your own newsletters into it. So, it's like whatever you actually trust and pay attention to. &gt;&gt; Genius. And how did you build this? Was it vibe coded? Did you have an engineer help you?

&gt;&gt; Well, both actually. Like I actually the vibe coding thing. This is exactly what vibe coding is good for is like this is like you know cursor and digital ocean and cloudflare will get you a long way in terms of just like building this stuff on the fly and so I built the first version of this myself end to end but then live by coding also doesn't really scale and so the reality is after a certain point I had some friends who are great engineers just take it and like uplevel it in a few ways that I honestly ran out of time to work on. Well, let's go to Contrarian Corner. Uh, this could be an entire podcast conversation with you, I suspect, but just like what's something you want to share that you believe that most other people don't believe? &gt;&gt; I think that the venture capital the seed venture capitalists who invest in companies that are branded as AI companies are going to lose an impossibly large amount of money in the coming years. Um, and that doesn't mean that I don't think you should be using AI to build things. I actually think you absolutely should.

It's kind of like not using AI in your startup is the equivalent of not using the cloud in like 2010 or like not using the internet in like 2000. It would be insane. Like of course you're going to use these tools. But there's a difference between a great business that you're using AI to supercharge or make better or just as a piece of infrastructure. That's not an AI business. This is a business, right? And I'm very into those versus like all of these companies that come out whether that say we are the AI blank. Um I just I think they're all going to zero. uh even you know my my kind of argument about this from a seed perspective is like look is open AAI a good investment or not it's a terrible seed investment right the way the numbers baked out even at a $500 billion market cap when all said and done the seed investors have made something like 25 times their money that's insane right if you think about it like that's basically the worst it's like a middling at best seed investment for like the company that is defining the moment and the reason is because these things are so capital consumptive so if you're trying to employ 100 million dollars.

The market is fragmented. You know, people want to dream a dream. People like want religion. They want belief. Like there there's a bunch of reasons why you can like squint and justify. And you know what? If the storytelling of Elon allows SpaceX, which by the way I love. I think SpaceX is an awesome company. But if all of a sudden that actually can be worth 1.4 trillion dollars to the public market, guess what? The money powers are going to do great with all this narrative driven uh religion is what I would put it. But if you're a disciplined seed investor, I guess my contrary take would be run away from things that are AI companies. Uh because even if you look smart for the moment, you're you're playing a dangerous game of get out uh before the narrative collapses. &gt;&gt; Wow, I love this. Okay, I want to follow this story a little bit. So is the you're saying because of the delilution that goes along with &gt;&gt; it's like they're too capital if they work they're too capital intensive. Like seed investing does not work in highly capital intensive businesses. So like that's not going to happen.

two, they're fundamentally commoditizing in all sorts of ways. It's very unclear what the lock in or value is on any of these things, right? And so it's just like the whole dynamic is off. And the thing is people are desperate right now for things to believe in. Like if you think about the history, you know, we've done so well as a country with Teranova. Like the US was amazing for so many years because we had the West and if you were going to work hard, you could like go west and you'd do great and like there was all this opportunity, land of opportunity. We've had reverberated like you know my generation, your generation. We were blessed because we had the internet. the internet was digital teranova and like we got to build fortunes and do amazing stuff and new work being in this like new world that was created but it was effectively the same thing as a west all over again right and ever since then whether it's mobile which again if you look at the math on it everyone wants to be disruptive in teranova not really it's just more internet right or like crypto which by the way I think crypto is amazing I think it's the closest thing to teranova but to now the AI god narratives every generation is desperate for their teranova the story with good reason, right?

Like but but the story is it has to be real, right? And I think unfortunately this time this is a classic example of AI is a powerful tool. It's incredibly powerful for existing businesses and existing structures. It's not a great startup opportunity. &gt;&gt; So what is it you look for? Do you in do you Yeah. What do you look for when you're investing in AI startup? &gt;&gt; Well, again, I won't invest in I would consider an AI startup. I'll invest in things that use AI. Right. Yeah, for me I think I'm really interested in the cultural implications of AI or the new businesses that need to exist because it is a force in the world. So we've done a lot whether it's sublime security or outtake things like that that are basically all around the theme of the void comp test from great bladeunner which was the test they basically ran are you a real or are you a bot right like that's a huge problem &gt;&gt; a turtle on their back &gt;&gt; yeah like there's a whole like set of companies that are like implications of AI and how do you manage it and handle it as a society there's a lot to do there and there's a lot to do in cultural shifts from AI right um with you know there's all sorts of interesting trends to follow there.

Like there's there's all sorts of businesses that will be disrupted. They're like not AI businesses. They're businesses that will be disrupted in interesting way. So I think there's a lot of opportunity, but again, I think there's a I at least draw a distinction between if you're trying to be I mean certainly a foundation model company, but like any of these things that are like we're going to win because AI, I'm like no, you're going to win because of something else, right? And AI is going to be a propellant to it. &gt;&gt; Sam, you're a fascinating human. I feel like I could we could talk for hours. Is there anything before we get to our very exciting lightning round? Anything else you wanted to &gt;&gt; Look, I'm happy to be here. Like I love your work. It's good to be on your podcast. Happy to whenever. &gt;&gt; But no, we're good. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, with that, we've reached our very exciting lightning round. I've got five questions for you. &gt;&gt; Five questions. I'm ready. &gt;&gt; Five questions. What are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people? &gt;&gt; Ooh. Okay. So, let me pull up my list cuz I I I got to pull up my Kindle for this.

Uh, one is I'm reading right now. I gotta admit I like to make fun of Mark Andre a lot, but he recommended a book called The Ancient City, which is fascinating. And so I'm in the middle of that right now. I'm really enjoying it. Um, Man's Search for Meaning is great. Uh, I'm just going through what have I read recently. You know what's great? Area 51, an uncensored history of the top secret military base. Not very ariodite. Great book. And then I I honestly think the one serious one I'll make a recommendation on is uh Lessons from History is like one of my favorite books ever. Um I would really really really recommend it. It's a short read. Um but I would Lessons from History by Alan Durant is like probably the most approachable non-obvious book I love. &gt;&gt; I did that one on Audible and it's you just listen to it all like not like in a couple hours. &gt;&gt; It's a short read. It's not a long book. I I honestly think from a &gt;&gt; few hours &gt;&gt; hours of investment to intellectual return &gt;&gt; my one real answer right now would be that I could give you a thousand others from I you know there are things like &gt;&gt; the banana king have you heard of this one have you seen this one &gt;&gt; oh my god this is so good what's it called this the fish that ate the whale incredible book uh so is um the last kings of Shanghai if you know that one like these are all like amazing books but they're longer and they're more stories just everyone on the podcast should go read Will Durant Okay.

I love it. Uh, favorite recent movie or TV show that you've really enjoyed. &gt;&gt; Oh, I gotta say, I mean, recent I think Land Man is fabulous. Have you watched Land Man? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I I'm like really into it. That would be my most recent take. &gt;&gt; What's interesting about that show is now uh tech companies are all super into energy. And you know, &gt;&gt; I talked to I talked to well, I'll tell you a funny story which I talked to a founder who's in uh Midland, Texas, and which is kind of part of the show. And it's so classic and typical. He's like, "All these Silicon Valley people now think they understand the energy industry because they watched Land Man." He's like, "So there's all He's like I'm like it's like wild, but I totally believe it because I know too many venture capitalists are like, "Oh, I now understand this because I watched Land Man." And he's like, "This totally a thing." &gt;&gt; Yeah. I I would feel that. Okay. Favorite product that you recently discover they love. Could be like a gadget, could be an app, could be clothing, could be &gt;&gt; Okay, I'll pitch, you know, I'll pitch people on, this is a little self- serving, but um I will pitch people on June date.

So, okay, I actually don't use this product because I'm happily married, but this is cool. And here's the basic idea is if you think about so much of AI right now, this goes back to like what businesses do you overhaul that are interesting that have AI implications but are not AI. So everyone's got this like whole virtual girlfriend loneliness, you're going to chat with your friend, like whatever, fine. These guys came out and what they do is they're like, look, if we're really trying to match up humans, like call it Tinder 2.0, one of the best sources of information to do that is their chat GPT histories. So this app is kind of built around the premise of distilling. You ask chatgbt a structure prompt that they've designed. It pulls out an unbelievably good profile of who you are and then you basically match with people based on like what you're actually asking chat GPT about and the implications of who you are and that the fun part is I haven't obviously done dates on it again not for me but I have pulled my profile from like wow this is like shockingly good description of who I actually am.

And so I think that's like a really fun business. &gt;&gt; That's it's like that prompt that the chat GBT folks once had of just like draw visualize my space based on everything you know about me and it's it was like holy moly a lot. &gt;&gt; It's pretty good. &gt;&gt; And so so in this dating app I love this idea. This is so good. So do people read that? Are they able to see that as your profile or something? &gt;&gt; It's it's it's a little abstracted from that and like but it's like the matching and the core thing is like based on it and it's like again I'm like I was like wow like this is good like &gt;&gt; and it's goes on dates for you. Okay. So it's like it simulates what the date might be like between you two potentially &gt;&gt; I guess. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Your AI goes on dates for you receives one high match each one carefully like Wow. So fun. &gt;&gt; It's good. I again if you're single I tried &gt;&gt; with my newsletter at one point I was like oh you know &gt;&gt; honestly the people who read my newsletter are pretty weird and specific and so hey why don't I just like offer a matchmaking service where I'm like okay if you read my newsletter really you're here tell me who you are I will like build a little LLM and try to match these people didn't work for me because candidly you know what happened way too many qualified women and not enough men I just don't have the liquidity like I have hundred great women who murder in being like, "Hey, this is what I'm looking for.

This is who I am." You're like, "You are an amazing person." And then like the four guys who write in are like, "I want a 25year-old hot girlfriend." You're like, "Ah, this is not going to work." But June and Dane might have the liquidity to make it work. &gt;&gt; By the way, your newsletter is awesome. Tell people where to find it while we're on the top. &gt;&gt; You actually can't like I just kind of like there's no way to sign up for it. Um, if you send me an email, &gt;&gt; perfect. &gt;&gt; If you send me an email lesson atgmail, I'm fine. like then I you get if I respond, you get automatically added. I basically just like that's how I like people I'm interacting with get added or I'll just add you. But I it's actually funny. There's not I &gt;&gt; Oh, well, you know what you can do actually that'll get you on it is if you go to wlesson.com less wlein.com I have my little like bot app up that like includes like a little LLM that kind of is trained on my writing just because I was having fun building it.

If you enter your email address there and talk to it, it will add you. Um, but no, there's not like a signup page. &gt;&gt; Okay. I love I love this contrarian growth strategy. No, no, you can't really sign up. Okay, that's great. Okay, two more questions. Uh, do you have a favorite life motto that you find yourself coming back to often in work or in life? &gt;&gt; No, but I will say that I have hanging in my gym, which I love from the Facebook hackathon after the launch of Plus. This is going way back in history. They made great posters which was uh Carthage must burn and it was just like this great moment in work time when it was like okay game on like Google's coming for us like let's and I had some of the most fun work experiences. We were working literally 24 hours a day like past midnight every night was in that period and I love that poster. So Carthage must burn. How about that? Great. Final question. You are a fellow podcaster. Uh I really enjoy your podcast called More or Less. It's very cleverly named because of lesson and the Moors.

&gt;&gt; We love our lesson. We also like my wife and I are contrarians and hate everything by default and the Morins like think everything is amazing. So it kind of works from a dynamic perspective. &gt;&gt; I love it. And Dave Moren, Brett Morren, just to be clear and your wife, she runs the information. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So she's good at prompting us with what's actually going on in the world and then we just about it. &gt;&gt; So what's uh what's something you've learned from that experience? I don't know. any surprises about podcasting? &gt;&gt; So, here's the thing. I think people like it's kind of a weird podcast in some ways because honestly, I don't think any of us are highly filtered and it's kind of just like talking to your friends for an hour a week, which I want to do. Like, I love the world. We don't live that close to them. So, it's kind of fun to just like have that time set aside and then cut it up and post on the internet pretty raw. Um, here's the funny thing about it. It's fine. It serves our purposes way more than I actually expected it to, which is we enjoy doing it, which is the most important part.

We would do it if no one was listening. And weirdly, like a lot of our friends and people we care about in the industry seem to pick up pieces they like from it and like talk to us about it. So, it's like a great conversation starter. Um, so it's like weird is like I don't like it's not a huge podcast. it's big enough, but it's it's I actually think the thing that's been most surprising to me about it is though even though like we don't really have growth strategies and like we're not trying to blow it up and like we don't get paid for it, it's like weirdly useful is what I would say. Um, you know, even the fact that it's like, you know, is I don't know. I'm not sure if that's your experience too, but like and I think your podcast is probably much larger than ours, but um it's like weirdly listened to and useful by the people that like we care about um and is fun &gt;&gt; despite the fact that &gt;&gt; you know it's not like a I don't know it's not all in or something &gt;&gt; yet. I don't think it ever will be.

It's like way too niche, you know, like um but we have fun. I mean, I would I would happily do it with my friends if no one was listening. And then it's like that's kind of wild that a bunch of people that we actually do care about find the pieces that are interesting. And it actually is helpful from a business perspective because you about something and then some entrepreneur shows up is like, hey, by the way, here's a better idea. You're like, that's great. Sam, you're awesome. This was such a fun chat. Very different from my regular podcast. I think people will find this extremely interesting and useful as I thought and also fun. Two final questions. Where can folks find you online if they want to reach out for check? &gt;&gt; My look, our venture firm is called Slow Ventures slow.co. Um I'm Sam Lesson. I'm kind of lesson everywhere whether it's like Twitter or Instagram or whatever you used. Um or just lesson atgmail is my last name is is my email address and I do read it. So I don't know. I appreciate you having me on. It's always fun to see you.

It's been too long. Um and I don't know. Come hang out in the pool house sometime. &gt;&gt; Okay. I love I love this this as an excuse to hang out. Sam, thank you so much for being here. Hey, great to see you. Bye everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcast, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
