---
title: "Mastering product strategy and growing as a PM | Maggie Crowley (Toast, Drift, TripAdvisor)"
date: "2023-11-05"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Maggie Crowley"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Maggie Crowley is VP of product at Toast and previously vice president and head of product at Charlie Health, senior director of product management at Drift, and a PM at TripAdvisor. She’s also the ho"
word_count: 11272
youtube_id: "4LjddcccYIo"
---

If you ever find yourself saying something like,&nbsp; that's not my job, that's probably a thing you&nbsp;&nbsp; should do. And you know what? It probably isn't&nbsp; your job and it probably is someone else's job&nbsp;&nbsp; and you can spend your life getting frustrated&nbsp; at that or you can just get over and get the&nbsp;&nbsp; work done. And people who are willing to just get&nbsp; the work done will move faster. Their products&nbsp;&nbsp; will be more successful and they probably aren't&nbsp; carrying around all that anger and crappy emotion&nbsp;&nbsp; because as a PM, for better or for worse, and&nbsp; maybe this is not how we all want it to be,&nbsp;&nbsp; but you're oftentimes the emotional center of the&nbsp; team and it's your job to keep people motivated,&nbsp;&nbsp; keep people excited, keep them bought into the&nbsp; project, and you just have to keep that optimism&nbsp;&nbsp; going and it's hard work and part of it can be&nbsp; just like, you know what? Let me take that on.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll do this thing. I'll hop on this sales&nbsp; call, I'll implement this with the customer.&nbsp;&nbsp; You just have to do whatever it takes. Today my guest is Maggie Crowley. Maggie is&nbsp;&nbsp; currently vice president of Product at Toast.&nbsp; Prior to this, she was VP and head of product&nbsp;&nbsp; at Charlie Health, senior director of product at&nbsp; Drift, director of product at BevSpot, a product&nbsp;&nbsp; manager at TripAdvisor.

She's also got an&nbsp; MBA from Harvard Business School. She was&nbsp;&nbsp; also an Olympic speed skater, which is insane&nbsp; and incredibly cool. And in our conversation&nbsp;&nbsp; we discuss the three most common threads across&nbsp; the best product managers that she's worked with,&nbsp;&nbsp; hired and managed how to very tactically write&nbsp; out a product strategy to share with your team&nbsp;&nbsp; and manager why being data-driven is a red flag&nbsp; for product thinking. Why product content you&nbsp;&nbsp; find online can be dangerous. Her best advice&nbsp; for how to break into product management. Also,&nbsp;&nbsp; the impact writing online has had on her&nbsp; career and so much more. Maggie is amazing. &nbsp; I'm excited for you to learn from her like I&nbsp; did. With that, I bring you Maggie Crowley after&nbsp;&nbsp; a short word from our sponsors. This episode is&nbsp; brought to you by Productroadmap.ai and ignition&nbsp;&nbsp; Productroadmap.ai is the first AI roadmapping&nbsp; suite. It helps ensure roadmaps drive revenue&nbsp;&nbsp; by instantly aligning product with your sales and&nbsp; marketing teams to capture upsell opportunities.&nbsp;&nbsp; Built by early leaders from Rippling and Craft,&nbsp; it automatically identifies feature gaps from your&nbsp;&nbsp; CRM data and your customer conversations, adds&nbsp; them to shareable roadmaps, easily prioritized&nbsp;&nbsp; by revenue impact, and then seamlessly closes the&nbsp; loop with sales reps via targeted notifications&nbsp;&nbsp; when feature gaps are closed.

As part of&nbsp; Ignition's broader go-to market operating system,&nbsp;&nbsp; Productroadmap.ai can also help create better&nbsp; handoffs and collaboration with product marketing&nbsp;&nbsp; teams by giving both teams the tools to research,&nbsp; plan, orchestrate and measure the process of&nbsp;&nbsp; building products and going to market. Packed&nbsp; with integrations, AI automation and communication&nbsp;&nbsp; tools. It's truly a one-stop shop for product and&nbsp; marketing to bring things from concept to launch.&nbsp;&nbsp; To sign up, go to productroadmap.ai and use&nbsp; promo code Lenny to get 75% off your first year. This episode is brought to you by Composer, the&nbsp; AI powered trading platform now with retirement&nbsp;&nbsp; accounts, algorithmic trading has historically&nbsp; been reserved for the hedge fund elite. Now with&nbsp;&nbsp; Composer, you can automate your trading with a&nbsp; library of over 1,000 strategies that are easy&nbsp;&nbsp; to understand and tweak using an AI assistant&nbsp; and visual editor. Composer is the first ever&nbsp;&nbsp; algorithmic trading platform where you don't need&nbsp; any coding experience. It includes a full range&nbsp;&nbsp; of trading indicators for you to get creative and&nbsp; a Discord community of 2,500 traders to discuss&nbsp;&nbsp; your ideas with. Composer also has a powerful&nbsp; backtester to see the historical performance&nbsp;&nbsp; of your strategies and you can then invest with&nbsp; a single click.

Once you invest, composer will&nbsp;&nbsp; automatically trade for you based on the logic of&nbsp; your strategy. With $1 billion in trading volume&nbsp;&nbsp; and over 1 million trades executed Composer&nbsp; already has many big time investors using the&nbsp;&nbsp; platform regularly. Head to composer.trade and use&nbsp; the code Lenny for an extra week of free trial on&nbsp;&nbsp; your composer membership. That's composer.trade. Maggie, thank you so much for being&nbsp;&nbsp; here. Welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me. I'm super excited. You put out so much content across podcasts,&nbsp; blogs, tweets, I'm sure there's other things&nbsp;&nbsp; I haven't even seen. And so what I've done is&nbsp; I've scoured all of your content as much as I&nbsp;&nbsp; could to find topics that we could dig into in&nbsp; our conversation today. And I thought it'd be&nbsp;&nbsp; fun to start with how to become a successful&nbsp; product manager and what it takes to be a&nbsp;&nbsp; successful product manager, especially long-term&nbsp; in your career. You've worked with a bunch of PMs,&nbsp;&nbsp; you've hired a lot of PMs, you've managed&nbsp; a lot of PMs, and so I guess the question&nbsp;&nbsp; is just what are some common threads you've&nbsp; seen across the best product managers? Yeah, it's an interesting question mostly&nbsp; because I've worked in startups, zero to one,&nbsp;&nbsp; scaling stage startups, enterprise, all that kind&nbsp; of stuff.

And there's a lot of content out there&nbsp;&nbsp; I think on how those roles are different and how&nbsp; PMs are different across those different types of&nbsp;&nbsp; companies. But what I've seen is that there are&nbsp; some standard things that are the same across the&nbsp;&nbsp; role no matter whether you're a consumer, B2B or&nbsp; startup or a large company and in particular about&nbsp;&nbsp; what sets PMs apart from one another. And the&nbsp; things that I look for when I'm hiring or when I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; looking to promote people or when PMs stand out,&nbsp; even when you're not looking are three things. First, I think the best PMs are really good at&nbsp; breaking things down and simplifying things. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; finding at any moment what is the really&nbsp; truly the only thing you need to do,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially in a big company, there are&nbsp; 8 million priorities, there's 700 OKRs,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's 25,000 projects you could work on, and&nbsp; teams will get bogged down in that complexity.&nbsp;&nbsp; Similarly speaking at a startup, you might think&nbsp; that it's easy to find the one thing to do,&nbsp;&nbsp; but at the same time there's so many fires that&nbsp; are happening and so many things you could do in&nbsp;&nbsp; such a world of opportunity that even just picking&nbsp; one and sticking with it is really difficult.

And&nbsp;&nbsp; so the best PMs not only can find the one thing&nbsp; to work on, but they can stay with that one&nbsp;&nbsp; thing long enough to actually finish it. I think that's a really interesting point,&nbsp;&nbsp; because it sounds simple. Also, just this idea&nbsp; of simplifying, but I think there's so much up&nbsp;&nbsp; there partly because within simplifying is&nbsp; prioritizing and you can almost boil down&nbsp;&nbsp; the job of the PM as they're just prioritizing&nbsp; and telling people what is next. And so I think&nbsp;&nbsp; that's a really powerful point you're making. Prioritization is a tough word because there's&nbsp;&nbsp; so much wrapped up in that and what it means to&nbsp; prioritize. And I've worked for people who wanted&nbsp;&nbsp; to understand the formula for prioritization&nbsp; and why this thing and how can you prove that&nbsp;&nbsp; this is the right thing to work on and not&nbsp; that thing. And then a week goes by and then&nbsp;&nbsp; they want to reevaluate the priority and they&nbsp; want to re-litigate the priority. And so it's&nbsp;&nbsp; so much more than just a moment in time deciding,&nbsp; but it's the ability to stay with it and to make&nbsp;&nbsp; sure that it continues to be the most important&nbsp; thing, that you finish it and actually see that&nbsp;&nbsp; it works and that you can get people to continue&nbsp; to stay excited and engaged in that project.

Because I think a lot of when we talk about&nbsp; product, it's like, oh, what should you build?&nbsp;&nbsp; What should you ship? But then you actually have&nbsp; to ship that and that can take a week, a month,&nbsp;&nbsp; three months, six months, a year. And so as a&nbsp; PM, your job is to stay on that and be the person&nbsp;&nbsp; who's beating that drum over and over again, and&nbsp; the best PMs are the ones who can do that and have&nbsp;&nbsp; the resilience and the energy to stay with it. Energy. That's a really important part of that.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm going to ask you how you suggest&nbsp; people get better at these things. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; either we can go into how you found you get better&nbsp; at simplifying or we go through all three and then&nbsp;&nbsp; we can come back, however you prefer. Let's just do all three really quick and&nbsp;&nbsp; then we can dig in. Sounds great. So, yeah, first one, simplifying. I think the&nbsp; second one has to do with this point about&nbsp;&nbsp; sticking with something and it's following up&nbsp; on results. So many people in the spec or the&nbsp;&nbsp; one pager or something will say, okay, here's&nbsp; the metric that I care about.

Here's what I&nbsp;&nbsp; want to move. Awesome. Maybe they'll even write&nbsp; a SQL query, get a dashboard going, figure out&nbsp;&nbsp; what the number is today, that gets you some extra&nbsp; points, but the really, really good PMs remember&nbsp;&nbsp; to follow up. Because especially when you're&nbsp; in management, couple layers up in management,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm not going to remember to follow up on that&nbsp; feature, but if a PM comes back to me and says,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Hey, remember we did that thing, here's what&nbsp; happened." I can't tell you how rare that is&nbsp;&nbsp; and how many times as a leader you might&nbsp; have to ask for that and for the people&nbsp;&nbsp; you don't have to ask that of is one of the best&nbsp; things when I'm looking at PMs and it's easy. It's not hard to do that, especially if you've set&nbsp; up metric tracking or you know how to pull that&nbsp;&nbsp; information or you have somebody who can help you&nbsp; get that. It's pretty easy to do and it's really&nbsp;&nbsp; high value activity. And then the third thing,&nbsp; and I think maybe we'll talk about this later too,&nbsp;&nbsp; is that a phrase actually we were talking about&nbsp; David Cancel before we started carrying the water,&nbsp;&nbsp; and this was a big theme when I joined Drift,&nbsp; and this is about how you can't be a good PM&nbsp;&nbsp; if you're not willing to do the hard boring&nbsp; unglamorous work of customer support, sales,&nbsp;&nbsp; marketing, writing, copy, project management, you&nbsp; have to do that stuff.

It's your job. No one else&nbsp;&nbsp; is going to do it, because at the end of the day,&nbsp; you're responsible for outcomes and results. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're the person that has to do that,&nbsp; and if you're willing to do that work,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's what's going to make your product&nbsp; successful, which is what makes you successful. It's such an interesting list because&nbsp; when you ask most people what you need&nbsp;&nbsp; to get better at to become a great product&nbsp; manager, it's always communication skills,&nbsp;&nbsp; collaboration skills, vision, strategy, and it&nbsp; feels like these are input metrics to what it's&nbsp;&nbsp; normally what people think about. Those things to me, communication,&nbsp;&nbsp; super important, analytical ability, really,&nbsp; really important. The ability to look at a,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially if you're doing something&nbsp; that has a user experience component,&nbsp;&nbsp; the ability to look at that and understand if it's&nbsp; going to work and build up intuition around that,&nbsp;&nbsp; also really important. Those are things that I&nbsp; would see as sort of basics of the role. These&nbsp;&nbsp; are the things that make you great at the role&nbsp; and strategy to me, and hopefully we'll talk about&nbsp;&nbsp; strategy in a bit. It's one tiny slice. You do&nbsp; a strategy, but it's 5% of the work that you do.&nbsp;&nbsp; Yes, it's important because you want to get your&nbsp; strategy and you need to pick the right products,&nbsp;&nbsp; but at the end of the day, the person who has&nbsp; a good strategy will not be as successful as&nbsp;&nbsp; the PM who ships more stuff, gets more reps and&nbsp; has the ability to actually create impact.

So,&nbsp;&nbsp; to me, you could be great at strategy,&nbsp; but if you're not good at this stuff and&nbsp;&nbsp; your stuff isn't getting out the door, you're&nbsp; never going to be that great at the job. And impact is the other one. Everyone's&nbsp; always like, what makes a great PM? Oh,&nbsp;&nbsp; drive a lot of impact. And again- But they never say how. Right, exactly. It's like, cool, let's do a strategy,&nbsp;&nbsp; let's have impact. Then when I was starting off&nbsp; as a PM, I was hearing this advice and reading&nbsp;&nbsp; about it and I was sitting there saying, awesome,&nbsp; I want to create impact. And I'm looking at my&nbsp;&nbsp; job thinking, now what? Yeah, impact. Let's do it.&nbsp; Where is it? How do I find it? Someone help me. I love it. Okay, so let's go back to these&nbsp; three and I'm curious just what you found&nbsp;&nbsp; helps you become better at these things and also&nbsp; just an example if you can share. So, say what's&nbsp;&nbsp; simplifying? How does one build that muscle? This is a tough one because some people,&nbsp;&nbsp; a broad generalization that I think comes up&nbsp; in things like when you're interviewing PMs&nbsp;&nbsp; for a job and you say things like are they a&nbsp; simplifier or are they complexifier?

Do they&nbsp;&nbsp; make things complicated? And so some of it's&nbsp; a little bit of just who you are and how you&nbsp;&nbsp; think. But having said that, there's one tool that&nbsp; I use that I actually learned from my dad when I&nbsp;&nbsp; was in grade school, which is when you write&nbsp; something, for example, and a lot of what we&nbsp;&nbsp; do as PMs is written, when you write something,&nbsp; read it out loud, literally just read the thing&nbsp;&nbsp; you wrote out loud and half the time you'll&nbsp; realize it's way too complicated, it doesn't&nbsp;&nbsp; make sense. Or what happens is when someone&nbsp; comes to me and they say, okay, I'm working&nbsp;&nbsp; on this thing, check it out, can you read it? I read it and then I put it down and I say,&nbsp;&nbsp; "What are you trying to say?" And 99% of the time&nbsp; they say, "Oh, users are really struggling with&nbsp;&nbsp; this problem. We found this in research and&nbsp; we think that the way to solve it's to do X",&nbsp;&nbsp; but that's not what the document says. And so&nbsp; my reaction is always, and if anyone who I've&nbsp;&nbsp; worked with is listening to this, they're going&nbsp; to laugh is always, "Just say that.

Just say&nbsp;&nbsp; that thing. The thing that you said to me in&nbsp; conversation is the thing you should write."&nbsp;&nbsp; There's no reason why your pros in a document&nbsp; has to be a certain way. We're not in school.&nbsp;&nbsp; Our goal is to get things done. So, those are&nbsp; just some simple tricks that I've used to help&nbsp;&nbsp; simplify what I've already been working on. And as for how to boil things down and really&nbsp;&nbsp; find the most important thing to do, which is&nbsp; another part of simplification, I think the&nbsp;&nbsp; best thing you can do is just get as many reps&nbsp; in as you can, have people review your work and&nbsp;&nbsp; listen to them. There's a thing that happens I&nbsp; think with PMs where you join a company and then&nbsp;&nbsp; all of a sudden it's like my boss doesn't know&nbsp; what they're doing and the highest paid person's&nbsp;&nbsp; opinion and the founder wants to swoop in and mess&nbsp; everything up, but those people had an insight on&nbsp;&nbsp; the market that you're in that made the company&nbsp; worth founding and they probably know more than&nbsp;&nbsp; you and so you might want to listen to them. And&nbsp; so find people who can review your work, listen&nbsp;&nbsp; to them and ask them to help you simplify.

I'll share a couple other things that came to&nbsp;&nbsp; mind as you were talking, because this is a very&nbsp; hard thing to teach and you kind of have to do&nbsp;&nbsp; it again and again and honestly, I have this&nbsp; one manager who taught me to simplify in my&nbsp;&nbsp; writing and strategy docs one-pagers and things&nbsp; like that, and I think that actually had a big&nbsp;&nbsp; impact on my newsletter success is learning just&nbsp; to strip down as much as you can and anything that&nbsp;&nbsp; isn't necessary. So, there's a couple things that&nbsp; I'll share real quick. One is there's this book I&nbsp;&nbsp; read called On Writing Well, that is one of the&nbsp; most impactful books for writing for me, and the&nbsp;&nbsp; whole book is like, I don't know, 20 chapters and&nbsp; every chapter is more things you should cut from&nbsp;&nbsp; your writing and they show all these examples&nbsp; of like, here's a before and here's an after. And all these words were cut and nothing&nbsp; changed. They're completely necessary. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that book can help and partly it's just&nbsp; like what is not necessary? You think all these&nbsp;&nbsp; adjectives are important. Another thing I&nbsp; found really helpful is the rule of thirds,&nbsp;&nbsp; I guess the rule of three, of just always having&nbsp; three.

Try not to go beyond three when you're&nbsp;&nbsp; giving strategy bets or priorities or things like&nbsp; that. Just try to keep things under three. Yeah, it's a very sort of business school&nbsp; ex-consultant point of view that I do agree&nbsp;&nbsp; with and share, which is there's always&nbsp; three things or fewer, never more than&nbsp;&nbsp; three things. You have to have a nice round&nbsp; couple and if you have a fourth, you've got&nbsp;&nbsp; to figure out how to squish it in there because&nbsp; it just doesn't look right if there's four. Agree. Yeah, even though I've been guilty&nbsp; of more than three, try hard to avoid it. Yeah, you're using notion and you have your&nbsp; three bullets expanding and there's sub bullets,&nbsp;&nbsp; but at least you have that top line. That's right. The other thing is I think&nbsp;&nbsp; that there's just a focus you need to get&nbsp; good at just like, people often want to lump&nbsp;&nbsp; together a bunch of ideas and then every time&nbsp; you do that it just dilutes everything. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think there's just a lot of power and pick&nbsp; the thing, pick the thing that's going to have&nbsp;&nbsp; the most impact and cut other stuff that may&nbsp; have some impact but is much less important.

I think again, simplification is something and&nbsp; prioritization, which is sort of the same thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; gets tossed around a lot as a&nbsp; thing you have to get good at,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it's really challenging. Getting to the&nbsp; one thing you should do is extremely difficult&nbsp;&nbsp; and being able and having the gumption to say&nbsp; no to all those other things is really hard,&nbsp;&nbsp; because there's probably at any given time, 10&nbsp; things you should do, but you can't do 10 things,&nbsp;&nbsp; you'll never be successful if you do that in a&nbsp; number of things. And so you have to pick one. And so it's both figuring out how to get&nbsp; confident in your decision and then B,&nbsp;&nbsp; having the willingness, and maybe I should have&nbsp; added this to my what makes great PMs list,&nbsp;&nbsp; the willingness to make the bet and be responsible&nbsp; for it. And that's what I think separates the PM&nbsp;&nbsp; role from a lot of other roles and why it's such&nbsp; a challenging job when done right is because you&nbsp;&nbsp; have to be willing to take responsibility&nbsp; and it's your job to pick the thing and&nbsp;&nbsp; it's your job to be accountable to your team for&nbsp; picking the thing so you better get it right.

Ownership such an important part of just being&nbsp; a PM. Again, coming back to this interview I&nbsp;&nbsp; just did with an ex Amazon guy, that's one of&nbsp; their principles at Amazon is just leaders,&nbsp;&nbsp; basically ownership, feeling like you have&nbsp; ownership of what you're working on. I agree, but to me at least the word ownership&nbsp; doesn't have the same oh shit feeling as you're&nbsp;&nbsp; making a bet. You make a bet, that means you&nbsp; know that there's a chance that the thing&nbsp;&nbsp; you're working on is not going to work out and&nbsp; you still have to be the one to do the thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; jump off the ledge, drop in on the ski run.&nbsp; So, ownership to me never signaled that risk&nbsp;&nbsp; that I think comes with being a PM. Good point. On the simplify concept,&nbsp;&nbsp; it reminds me at Airbnb, one of the core values&nbsp; at Airbnb for time was simplify. Is this idea&nbsp;&nbsp; that we should always try to be simplifying, and&nbsp; then it turned out the founders realized we're&nbsp;&nbsp; not actually great at this and it's unfair for&nbsp; us to say this is a value for not doing it. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; they actually cut it as a core value because their&nbsp; feeling was we shouldn't have aspirational values,&nbsp;&nbsp; we should reflect who we actually are, and they&nbsp; actually cut two different values to be more&nbsp;&nbsp; clear, even though they still want to simplify,&nbsp; they're just like, we're not actually good at&nbsp;&nbsp; this, so why are we pretending like we are.

I think maybe I'm good at it on paper,&nbsp;&nbsp; but there's been many times where I've been in&nbsp; situations where things are not simple and you&nbsp;&nbsp; just have to keep fighting for it. Someone's trying to think about, okay,&nbsp;&nbsp; I want to become better as a PM and I'm going&nbsp; to try to start simplifying. What are examples&nbsp;&nbsp; of simplifying? Is it reduce your email length?&nbsp; Is it one pager focus? What are these buckets&nbsp;&nbsp; of things? And then also if there's an example of&nbsp; something you've simplified that comes to mind On what to simplify and more specifics, I would&nbsp; say anything can be simplified and shortened.&nbsp;&nbsp; Maybe another way to say shorten it. Definitely&nbsp; emails. I read them sometimes don't love them.&nbsp;&nbsp; Make them short. The Minto principle is something&nbsp; that I would recommend everyone do, which is put&nbsp;&nbsp; the headline, the full conclusion first and&nbsp; then you're supporting argument second. I have a newsletter post about that exact concept&nbsp; that people that I will link in the show notes&nbsp;&nbsp; that gives you- Fantastic. The Minto Pyramid principle. Yes, everyone should do that. A&nbsp;&nbsp; lot of new PMs fall into the trap of thinking&nbsp; that they should have some sort of buildup.&nbsp;&nbsp; Don't do that.

Just tell me whatever the thing is,&nbsp; everyone will thank you. Doing things like that,&nbsp;&nbsp; things like you said, limiting your strategy docs,&nbsp; your conclusions, your next steps to three things&nbsp;&nbsp; maximum. I would generally say a rule of thumb&nbsp; would be pretty much every doc you write, you&nbsp;&nbsp; can delete the first two paragraphs that you've&nbsp; written. You don't need them. My dad, again,&nbsp;&nbsp; to go back to my dad when I would write, and this&nbsp; sounds cruel, but I promise it wasn't. When I&nbsp;&nbsp; would write a paper for school, he would just, and&nbsp; this is we didn't really have computers, whatever,&nbsp;&nbsp; he would just take away the first page and he'd&nbsp; be like, just start here. He would go, "Everything&nbsp;&nbsp; on the first page is crapola, don't use it." And he wouldn't even read it, which would drive&nbsp;&nbsp; me crazy. He would just like, "Oh, it's crap.&nbsp; I don't care about that." So, I would do that&nbsp;&nbsp; and then just get other people, there's probably&nbsp; somebody around you that's good and find people to&nbsp;&nbsp; edit your work and to look at it. I have a little&nbsp; Slack workspace that has three people in it,&nbsp;&nbsp; me and two other women who are product leaders,&nbsp; and we oftentimes send each other our work still&nbsp;&nbsp; and we say, "Hey, I'm struggling with this.&nbsp; Can you read it?

Help me make it simpler. Can&nbsp;&nbsp; you help me fix this up?" And we do that for&nbsp; each other. So, find a peer maybe who's in a&nbsp;&nbsp; non-competitive space who can do that for you.&nbsp; I mean I still use those people to help me. That is extremely cool. Can you talk&nbsp; more about this group that you have? Yeah, I don't know if it's a group. It's like&nbsp; three friends. Shout out Alexa and Daphne. Yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; I mean the three of us all worked&nbsp; together when we were at Drift. We've&nbsp;&nbsp; stayed in touch and I've just found that in&nbsp; order to be good at your job continuously,&nbsp;&nbsp; you need people who can help give you feedback,&nbsp; and the more senior you get, the harder that is.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so having people who can give you another&nbsp; point of view who maybe you can vent to if it's&nbsp;&nbsp; not appropriate as a leader who can give you&nbsp; other experiences that they're going through&nbsp;&nbsp; has been incredibly valuable. And so we just have&nbsp; a little group chat that is focused on product. That is so cool. Is there a tip you could&nbsp; share for someone that wants to create&nbsp;&nbsp; something like this?

Is it important for you to&nbsp; have worked with them before? Is Slack a good&nbsp;&nbsp; way to communicate? Anything there that's&nbsp; just like, oh yeah, here's a cool tip. Slack just worked for us where we are during&nbsp; the day, and I think having easy access to it&nbsp;&nbsp; was important. You could probably use WhatsApp or&nbsp; a literal group text. There are small community,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's one, I worked in healthcare for a year and&nbsp; a bit, and there's a Slack community that somebody&nbsp;&nbsp; organized for heads of products and healthcare&nbsp; startups that is similar to those really,&nbsp;&nbsp; really powerful and a really great space to be&nbsp; in. And so you just have to kind of suss out&nbsp;&nbsp; where these things are. You work with amazing&nbsp; people and there's people around you who are&nbsp;&nbsp; going to become your friends, and so keep an&nbsp; eye out for them and keep in touch with them&nbsp;&nbsp; when you leave a job because you never know when&nbsp; they might become your little Slack workspace. Oh, I love it. Okay, I'm glad we talked&nbsp; on that. Okay, back on track. The second&nbsp;&nbsp; bucket you described as following&nbsp; up on results, is it just do that.&nbsp;&nbsp; Is there anything more you can add there?

I put reminders in my calendar. I mean, yeah,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's just do that. But if you're launching a&nbsp; product, usually you release something and you&nbsp;&nbsp; have that initial push of a couple of weeks&nbsp; where you're finding bugs and you're maybe&nbsp;&nbsp; you're pulling metrics and everyone remembers&nbsp; it, then I would remember two weeks after that,&nbsp;&nbsp; a month after that, six months after that, put a&nbsp; reminder in your calendar to check your dashboard&nbsp;&nbsp; or check the metrics or check whatever it is&nbsp; that you were doing, and you won't forget and&nbsp;&nbsp; then share them with whoever might care&nbsp; about it. And it's as simple as that. And is the reason this is one of the three things&nbsp; you think are most consistent across great PMs,&nbsp;&nbsp; that it helps your manager see you like,&nbsp; wow, Maggie's so on top of everything,&nbsp;&nbsp; or is it more that you learn from that experience&nbsp; and drive more impact or is it both? It's definitely both. I'm not going to pretend&nbsp; like if you're just great at your job quietly&nbsp;&nbsp; that you're going to get what you want.&nbsp; Just if you're toiling in the background,&nbsp;&nbsp; doing a great job getting results. If you have&nbsp; a great manager, maybe you'll be successful.&nbsp;&nbsp; Great managers are few and far between, and I&nbsp; am of the opinion that I never wanted to rely&nbsp;&nbsp; on someone else to get what I wanted.

And&nbsp; so I would always make sure to share that,&nbsp;&nbsp; always make sure to share my progress because I&nbsp; didn't want to leave it up to chance that someone&nbsp;&nbsp; would notice. So, I would suggest doing it for&nbsp; both reasons. And that's one of those things&nbsp;&nbsp; that people want to pretend that everything's&nbsp; perfect and we're all great and we're always&nbsp;&nbsp; going to get what we want and always going to get&nbsp; that promotion, but you have to work for it. I love that point. It reminds me what I find one&nbsp; of the most important traits of a great product&nbsp;&nbsp; manager is they create this aura that they've&nbsp; got this, they put something on their plate and&nbsp;&nbsp; they're not going to drop it, that the threads&nbsp; are not going to be forgotten. And this connects&nbsp;&nbsp; to me there. They feel like Maggie's going to&nbsp; tell me what happened with this experiment. I&nbsp;&nbsp; don't have to think about it as a manager. Yeah, that's a really good point. And then you&nbsp;&nbsp; mentioned this a little bit ago, the side benefit&nbsp; is that you learn more. You will go back and learn&nbsp;&nbsp; why something happened or why it didn't happen,&nbsp; and the more that you follow up on what you've&nbsp;&nbsp; been doing and the more you learn, the better&nbsp; you get every time you ship something.

To me,&nbsp;&nbsp; the other answer of what makes a great PM is&nbsp; family shipped a lot of stuff. The more you ship,&nbsp;&nbsp; the more you learn. And that's why it can&nbsp; take years to build up expertise because&nbsp;&nbsp; you just have to ship a lot of stuff. There's a lot of people that are always&nbsp;&nbsp; frustrated. They're not getting promoted&nbsp; quickly enough as a PM. They're not moving&nbsp;&nbsp; off the ladder like, oh my god, I've been a PM&nbsp; for two years. I'm not a senior PM yet. Can you&nbsp;&nbsp; speak more to just that thought and just how&nbsp; long it takes to get actually good? I guess&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll share briefly in my experience, it took&nbsp; me four years to actually know what the hell I&nbsp;&nbsp; was doing as a PM and then things started to&nbsp; really take off. What's your experience? I would say similarly, it took a lot of years to&nbsp; feel confident that I knew what I was doing. My&nbsp;&nbsp; first PM job was a product management rotation&nbsp; job at TripAdvisor. I had no PM background.&nbsp;&nbsp; It was after business school and I left those&nbsp; two years thinking, yeah, I've worked on four&nbsp;&nbsp; different teams over the two years.

I've shipped&nbsp; all this stuff, I'm good. Went to a startup, there&nbsp;&nbsp; was another product person there, they left and I&nbsp; was the only product person at the startup. And I&nbsp;&nbsp; realized really quickly, I had no idea what I was&nbsp; doing. I had no one to learn from. I had only had&nbsp;&nbsp; two years of experience and I was not ready for&nbsp; that job. I didn't feel confident in the decisions&nbsp;&nbsp; I was making. That's why I joined Drift is because&nbsp; that team had all these really incredible product&nbsp;&nbsp; thinkers on it and they were shipping all sorts of&nbsp; stuff. They had all this momentum and I thought,&nbsp;&nbsp; okay, that's where I'm going to go to learn. And so then two more years. So, that's five years&nbsp;&nbsp; until I really felt like I knew what I was doing.&nbsp; And that's because it takes a long time to ship&nbsp;&nbsp; stuff. And so to people who want to progress, you&nbsp; can progress by job hopping, you can progress by&nbsp;&nbsp; going in and out of startups. But to me staying at&nbsp; that, when I was at Drip, I was there for almost&nbsp;&nbsp; four years. I got to see two or three cycles of&nbsp; the same product and I learned more from that than&nbsp;&nbsp; I did out of the year or so I spent doing other&nbsp; things each at a time because you got to see the&nbsp;&nbsp; consequences of your decisions and that's rare.&nbsp; And people, myself included, of course you want to&nbsp;&nbsp; get promoted, of course you want to move up.

I'm&nbsp; ambitious. Lots of people are ambitious, but for&nbsp;&nbsp; better or for worse, spending the time is really&nbsp; helpful and I think allowed me to move faster&nbsp;&nbsp; later because I had just spent the time grinding&nbsp; it out for a while in order to be better later. So, is that advice you often give of&nbsp; go deep into a company or a product&nbsp;&nbsp; versus just bounce and track a bunch&nbsp; of different companies or depends? It depends. There are lots of really good reasons&nbsp; to bounce. I've done it, many people have done it,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I was surprised at how much I value&nbsp; that experience of having stuck around for&nbsp;&nbsp; a while and how much I learned from it was&nbsp; something I hadn't expected going into it,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially because you don't hear that point of&nbsp; view as much or as I wasn't hearing that point of&nbsp;&nbsp; view as much when I was thinking about the sort&nbsp; of arc of my career, but I'm glad that I did&nbsp;&nbsp; it. And then of course people always want to get&nbsp; promoted, always ask that question and my answer&nbsp;&nbsp; is always create impact and that can take time. At my first job, I was there for nine years and&nbsp;&nbsp; then I started a company for a year and a half and&nbsp; then we sold to Airbnb, and then I was at Airbnb&nbsp;&nbsp; for seven years.

So, I'm very much on that train&nbsp; of just, not that I intended for that to happen,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I definitely went deep and I think there's&nbsp; pros and cons, but there's so many pros to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; so many reasons. Okay. Let's talk about the&nbsp; last part, which is the third point you made,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is carrying the water, I&nbsp; think is how you described it. Yeah. This one, there's no tips and tricks.&nbsp; It's just do the work. If you ever find&nbsp;&nbsp; yourself saying something like, that's not my&nbsp; job, that's probably a thing you should do.&nbsp;&nbsp; And you know what? It probably isn't your job&nbsp; and it probably is someone else's job and you&nbsp;&nbsp; can spend your life getting frustrated at that&nbsp; or you can just get over and get the work done.&nbsp;&nbsp; And people who are willing to just get the work&nbsp; done will move faster, their products will be more&nbsp;&nbsp; successful and they probably aren't carrying&nbsp; around all that anger and crappy emotion. Because we touched on this earlier as a PM for&nbsp; better or for worse, and maybe this is not how&nbsp;&nbsp; we all want it to be, but you're oftentimes&nbsp; the emotional center of the team and it's&nbsp;&nbsp; your job to keep people motivated, keep people&nbsp; excited, keep them bought into the project,&nbsp;&nbsp; and you just have to keep that optimism going.&nbsp; And it's hard work.

It's really hard work to stay&nbsp;&nbsp; positive and to keep people amped for that thing.&nbsp; And part of it can be just like, you know what?&nbsp;&nbsp; Let me take that on. Let me grab that, whatever.&nbsp; I'll do this thing. I'll hop on this sales call,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'll implement this with the customer.&nbsp; It reminds me of one of your lessons that&nbsp; you shared, in one of your podcast episodes.&nbsp;&nbsp; It was one of your PM lessons of 2021, and the&nbsp; lesson was, when in doubt it's your job as a PM,&nbsp;&nbsp; which I think relates very much to which&nbsp; it just shared. Can you speak to that? It might actually make sense to put this in&nbsp; the context of the other roles that are part&nbsp;&nbsp; of the team. So, as an engineer, your job is&nbsp; to write the code to really reduce this down&nbsp;&nbsp; and build the thing and make it work to spec. As&nbsp; a designer, maybe your job is to design the thing,&nbsp;&nbsp; design the solution, design the user experience.&nbsp; Obviously there's lots more complexity in that&nbsp;&nbsp; role. Design your amazing engineering, your&nbsp; amazing TLDR, caveat, whatever. But as a PM,&nbsp;&nbsp; you don't have that thing, right? It's not like, oh, my job is just to&nbsp;&nbsp; write the one-pager.

That's not true. Your&nbsp; job isn't just to pick the problem. Your job&nbsp;&nbsp; is to deliver a business result. And so you're&nbsp; uniquely positioned to have to fill in all the&nbsp;&nbsp; gaps because no one else is incentivized to do&nbsp; that. As an engineer, you can finish your work&nbsp;&nbsp; and hand it off and say, I did it, and the good&nbsp; ones care, but you don't have to care. As a PM,&nbsp;&nbsp; you're not going to do your job unless that&nbsp; problem gets solved for the customer or the&nbsp;&nbsp; user at the end of the day. And so your job is to&nbsp; make sure everything happens for that product. It reminds me of another interview you did where&nbsp; you talked about how a lot of the PM job sucks.&nbsp;&nbsp; It's not as glamorous as people often think,&nbsp; and most of the job is these really boring,&nbsp;&nbsp; annoying things. I guess, is there anything&nbsp; you want to add there of just a lot of people&nbsp;&nbsp; want to get into PM, they're like, oh, I'm&nbsp; going to run the show. It's going to be so&nbsp;&nbsp; great. I'm going to be a product manager and tell&nbsp; people what to do. But that's not how it is.

It's just one of those things that people,&nbsp; and when I joined product, it was just sort&nbsp;&nbsp; of becoming a cool job. It wasn't the hot job&nbsp; on campus when I was in business school. That&nbsp;&nbsp; was more private equity, venture capital. And now&nbsp; there's a sense of cachet around it. But again,&nbsp;&nbsp; it comes back to that earlier point, which&nbsp; is you do get to do cool stuff. You get to&nbsp;&nbsp; decide what gets built. That's cool. You have&nbsp; a lot of ownership like we talked about. You&nbsp;&nbsp; could see it as you have a lot of power,&nbsp; but at the same time you're responsible. And so with that comes this responsibility to get&nbsp; it right, to make the right bets, ship the right&nbsp;&nbsp; products, get them out the door. And so there's&nbsp; a lot of bullshit work you have to do. Again,&nbsp;&nbsp; project management is one everyone hates on.&nbsp; QA is a really good one. You should QA your&nbsp;&nbsp; products. That's great if you have a QA team, you&nbsp; should QA them. You should know how they work. You&nbsp;&nbsp; should implement with your customers, you should&nbsp; be able to sell them, you should be able to find&nbsp;&nbsp; users.

All that stuff is stuff that you should&nbsp; be able to do, and none of it is above you. If someone is listening and they're not a&nbsp; PM and they are not convinced to not get&nbsp;&nbsp; into product manager, they still want to become&nbsp; a PM, what is your best advice for selling that&nbsp;&nbsp; is trying to get into product management of how&nbsp; to actually break into product management? I thought about this one a lot and I consulted&nbsp; the Slack workspace team. Because it's been a&nbsp;&nbsp; long time since I've tried to get into&nbsp; product. And so I didn't know what was&nbsp;&nbsp; going on these days because it's hard and&nbsp; I don't know if things have changed. I went&nbsp;&nbsp; to business school and that's how I got in.&nbsp; There was a program that took MBA students.&nbsp;&nbsp; I think there are some entry-level programs out&nbsp; there, big tech companies, if you can get them,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think they're really hard to get because&nbsp; they're very few and far between. And so the&nbsp;&nbsp; most common two paths that I've seen are people&nbsp; who switched laterally within a company. Again,&nbsp;&nbsp; challenging but can be done. Or people who joined&nbsp; startups. So, when I was at my last startup, I did&nbsp;&nbsp; hire someone who was coming out of business school&nbsp; who hadn't been into product into a PM role.

And I&nbsp;&nbsp; can't say I wouldn't do it because it was awesome&nbsp; and she was amazing, but it takes a lot of work. The reason why people don't do it is because&nbsp; as a manager, it takes a lot of work because&nbsp;&nbsp; there's so much that these people need to learn.&nbsp; And what we ended up doing is she and I spent four&nbsp;&nbsp; months working together in a WeWork in person to&nbsp; help her onboard really quickly into the role,&nbsp;&nbsp; which was so rewarding. And I loved every second&nbsp; of it, and I wish I could do that again and again&nbsp;&nbsp; and again. But to get that, she basically just&nbsp; hounded me. Christina, if you're listening,&nbsp;&nbsp; you emailed me a lot. We talked a lot and we&nbsp; waited until the time was right and then you&nbsp;&nbsp; finally convinced me to do it. So, I don't know.&nbsp; I don't if there's a reliable path that I can&nbsp;&nbsp; say this is what my advice would be other than&nbsp; try a startup network. See what you can do. And you've made up this point elsewhere, which I&nbsp; think is an additional key piece is once you have&nbsp;&nbsp; a PM title on your resume, everything gets&nbsp; easier.

As a hiring manager, I'm just like,&nbsp;&nbsp; I look at a resume like, oh, they've never been&nbsp; a PM. This isn't the role. It's rarely that&nbsp;&nbsp; someone wants someone that's never been a PM. Yeah. And I tell people, I do unsurprisingly talk&nbsp;&nbsp; to lots of people who either are in product&nbsp; or want to be in product. And that's one of&nbsp;&nbsp; the things I always tell them because if&nbsp; they're deciding between roles and they&nbsp;&nbsp; have an opportunity to do something, and my&nbsp; advice is always, if you can get someone to&nbsp;&nbsp; stamp you with the product manager role, take&nbsp; it. Because to your point, it's what we screen&nbsp;&nbsp; on. It's for better or for worse, it's just&nbsp; like you have to get that first job. And then&nbsp;&nbsp; once you get that first job, it all gets easier.&nbsp; You can get in and then you can talk about your&nbsp;&nbsp; experience because then the second question I&nbsp; have is, what have you shipped? So, it's like,&nbsp;&nbsp; have you been at PM before? What have you shipped?&nbsp; And it's fascinating how quickly people can't&nbsp;&nbsp; answer that question. And the people who can&nbsp; are always several steps ahead of the people. Let's shift topics and talk about product&nbsp; strategy.

Many people are told you need to&nbsp;&nbsp; get better product strategy. You're not great at&nbsp; strategy. A lot of people are also just confused,&nbsp;&nbsp; what is strategy? How do I get better at&nbsp; strategy? How do we describe a strategy?&nbsp;&nbsp; And you have a really great explanation and&nbsp; overview of how to think about this stuff. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'd love to hear your take on just how do you&nbsp; actually write out and describe a strategy. Sure, yeah. And another thing that happens, and&nbsp; I'll give the outline, but another thing I hear,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially as you get further in your career, and&nbsp; unfortunately if you're maybe an underrepresented&nbsp;&nbsp; person in tech, is that you need to be more&nbsp; strategic. And so that's feedback that almost&nbsp;&nbsp; always happens, especially if you're a woman in&nbsp; product, in tech who's knocking at the door of&nbsp;&nbsp; a leadership role. You've probably gotten that&nbsp; feedback. And so I made it my mission to figure&nbsp;&nbsp; out what the heck is this thing? How do I do it?&nbsp; How can I do it in a way that is demonstrable so&nbsp;&nbsp; that I'm never getting that feedback that's&nbsp; like, oh, she's not strategic. And so what I&nbsp;&nbsp; did was something that I kind of did in the&nbsp; background because I had an engineer who I&nbsp;&nbsp; worked with who really wanted to understand why&nbsp; we were doing what we were doing, and he was not&nbsp;&nbsp; satisfied with sort of a surface level answer.

And he was just pushing and pushing and pushing.&nbsp;&nbsp; And so what I did was I just wrote out a Google&nbsp; doc and I started with like, okay, and not fancy,&nbsp;&nbsp; these are just bullets. What is the mission? What&nbsp; is the point of the company? What are our goals?&nbsp;&nbsp; Maybe we have some sort of high level framing&nbsp; of what we're working on. And then I had this&nbsp;&nbsp; big section that was just the landscape. And in&nbsp; that section I put in what's going on with our&nbsp;&nbsp; business? What's happening with our products?&nbsp; What's our point of view on the market? Who&nbsp;&nbsp; are our competitors? A SWOT analysis, key risks&nbsp; that we might be facing. Just dump that all on&nbsp;&nbsp; paper. Then what are the current quarters&nbsp; business goals or however you do planning,&nbsp;&nbsp; what are the current things that your company's&nbsp; working on? Then I put in, all right, that's&nbsp;&nbsp; sort of the context that we're operating in. Then I wanted to understand where are we. So what&nbsp;&nbsp; is an honest accounting of the current state of&nbsp; your product, the business overall, and then the&nbsp;&nbsp; specific area that you're working in. What works,&nbsp; what doesn't work? What are your customers saying?&nbsp;&nbsp; Bottoms up feedback, users, customers, teams,&nbsp; what are your support tickets?

Get that all out&nbsp;&nbsp; on paper. And then really importantly, where are&nbsp; your technical hurdles? What are the big pieces of&nbsp;&nbsp; tech debt? What are your engineering and technical&nbsp; teams always harping on that they want to invest&nbsp;&nbsp; in? Are there some big things coming down the pipe&nbsp; that you need to think about? Just get everything&nbsp;&nbsp; on paper. And then usually in the process of&nbsp; writing all that down, you'll start to see,&nbsp;&nbsp; okay, I kind of get where we are. I kind of&nbsp; get what the challenge is. And then you write&nbsp;&nbsp; a section that's like, what's the opportunity? From all of that, what's going to bubble up as the&nbsp;&nbsp; top one or two opportunities for your team? Where&nbsp; do you want to play? Where can you win? Where's&nbsp;&nbsp; the unique? Based on your unique competitive&nbsp; advantage, where do you think you all should&nbsp;&nbsp; be and why? And then based on that opportunity,&nbsp; what are the challenges? So, what's going to be&nbsp;&nbsp; the hardest about taking advantage of that?&nbsp; What has to be, another way to frame it is&nbsp;&nbsp; what has to be true about the world for that&nbsp; to work? That's a one that's been helpful. And&nbsp;&nbsp; then what would you do?

Take a swing at writing&nbsp; down your solution, what you would need to build,&nbsp;&nbsp; how might it work? Anything that you have, this&nbsp; is where I would say three bullets, maybe what&nbsp;&nbsp; you might want to do and then a plan. If no one&nbsp; else had an opinion, how would you go about it? How would you sequence it? What would you do?&nbsp; How might you get the team to work on it? What&nbsp;&nbsp; would your team have to look like? How much would&nbsp; it cost to do it? All that you can start to layer&nbsp;&nbsp; in all that kind of stuff. And then I just share&nbsp; the doc. Share it with everybody. There should&nbsp;&nbsp; not be any secret. And you should be able to&nbsp; walk all the way from your company's mission&nbsp;&nbsp; down to the individual priority on your team and&nbsp; see the logic chain and why you got there. And if&nbsp;&nbsp; anyone doesn't agree with it, they can call out&nbsp; where their disagreement lands in that landscape.&nbsp;&nbsp; But at least then you've put everything on paper,&nbsp; you understand how you got to where you're going,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then you can have an argument about&nbsp; the different pieces and points of data and&nbsp;&nbsp; feedback that you're getting, but at least people&nbsp; understand how you got where you got.

And then it&nbsp;&nbsp; doesn't become like, I don't agree with you.&nbsp; It becomes, I don't agree with this point. This is such a cool way of doing it. By&nbsp; the way, is there a template that we can&nbsp;&nbsp; point people to that has this sort of- There's not, I've only ever done it in a&nbsp;&nbsp; loose Google doc and then it just grows and&nbsp; changes. I can maybe try to write up those&nbsp;&nbsp; bullets, but it's just like I just make headers&nbsp; and then I just start dumping content in it. Yes, that's all people need. If you end up&nbsp; creating that before this comes out, we'll&nbsp;&nbsp; throw it in the show notes. And if not, people&nbsp; can just bother you on Twitter and ask Maggie,&nbsp;&nbsp; where's that template that we talked about? Yeah, I'm happy to write it on a piece of paper&nbsp;&nbsp; and take a photo of it and send it around. There you go. Just make it really grainy and&nbsp;&nbsp; an artifact. We found Maggie's template. This&nbsp; is awesome. So, I've never heard of a version&nbsp;&nbsp; of this with so much depth into the landscape,&nbsp; and I think that's so smart because so much of&nbsp;&nbsp; conflict and disagreement comes from you just&nbsp; don't have the same information or the manager,&nbsp;&nbsp; exec or whatever doesn't think you have&nbsp; the information.

So, if you just lean into,&nbsp;&nbsp; here's everything that I know and here's what's&nbsp; happening, and if you disagree with this goal,&nbsp;&nbsp; tell me, and then it'll change the plan. Right. And yeah. Part of it's also that typically speaking,&nbsp;&nbsp; when you're doing a strategy, you're doing it at&nbsp; a higher level. So, I don't think every product&nbsp;&nbsp; needs a strategy. Every feature doesn't need a&nbsp; strategy for example, you don't need to do this&nbsp;&nbsp; if you're working on a tiny slice of a product and&nbsp; you have user feedback, don't overcomplicate it,&nbsp;&nbsp; just do the stuff that makes sense. But especially&nbsp; as I've gotten more senior in my career,&nbsp;&nbsp; the questions are bigger and the impact is broader&nbsp; and the timelines are longer. And honestly,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was also because I wanted to get it right. I&nbsp; didn't want to make a bet on something and put a&nbsp;&nbsp; bunch of resources against a problem and get&nbsp; it wrong. And so this was also homework that&nbsp;&nbsp; I wanted to do for myself to know that I was&nbsp; going to do the right thing. For some reason,&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm always paranoid that other people have more&nbsp; information or doing it better than I'm doing it.

So, I was like, okay, I have to write it all down&nbsp; and then make sure I got it right and share it&nbsp;&nbsp; with everyone and make sure that they agreed with&nbsp; me so that I didn't screw this thing up. And it&nbsp;&nbsp; just was such a useful exercise that I kept doing&nbsp; it. And of course people don't read it. People&nbsp;&nbsp; only read a tiny section. You'll run into the&nbsp; same problems you run in with everything else,&nbsp;&nbsp; but at least I knew that I had done the work and&nbsp; if people cared to engage with it was there. So, along those lines, I was going to actually&nbsp; ask, how long do you find this should be depending&nbsp;&nbsp; either on the timescale, say you're doing a&nbsp; quarterly strategy or a year, how many pages&nbsp;&nbsp; should this doc be as any guide? It's long. It gets real long. What is long? The actual content, I end up writing&nbsp;&nbsp; a summary to go back to the Minto principle.&nbsp; I end up doing the whole thing, then putting&nbsp;&nbsp; a summary at the top so that there's one, within&nbsp; the first, above the fold, if you will. You can&nbsp;&nbsp; kind of get the point and the suggestion on what I&nbsp; think we should do or what the strategy should be,&nbsp;&nbsp; should be customizable in that section.

But it&nbsp; can go 20 pages just because if you really want&nbsp;&nbsp; to get deep in a competitor or there's interesting&nbsp; market dynamics, interesting technological changes&nbsp;&nbsp; that are happening. Sometimes I'm screenshotting&nbsp; other companies marketing websites and dumping&nbsp;&nbsp; that in there. And that might be some interesting&nbsp; comments. So, it doesn't have to just be words or&nbsp;&nbsp; it can be all kinds of different things&nbsp; that you might want to put in there. And you made the point that it's not like you&nbsp; expect people to read this whole thing. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; the summary that gives them a conclusion and&nbsp; in theory if they want to really dig into it,&nbsp;&nbsp; they can. But I guess how do you find that&nbsp; balance of writing everything and making it&nbsp;&nbsp; so long that no one's ever going to read it&nbsp; to like this is actually going to be useful&nbsp;&nbsp; to someone and plus here's a summary. It comes back to the reason why I write the&nbsp;&nbsp; document in the first place. And that's for me.&nbsp; So, it's my homework to do my job effectively.&nbsp;&nbsp; I just make sure to share it. And I find that my,&nbsp; especially my engineering and design counterparts,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you're working in a true triad, will almost&nbsp; always engage really deeply on the doc because&nbsp;&nbsp; they're pretty much also on the line and&nbsp; they want to make sure that when they sign&nbsp;&nbsp; their teams up to do whatever it is that they&nbsp; believe in the thing that you're working on.

And so I find that those people will engage pretty&nbsp; deeply. Sometimes you'll have more junior folks on&nbsp;&nbsp; the team that'll just be interested and they'll&nbsp; get really into it too. And then there's some&nbsp;&nbsp; people that'll skim the upfront part and either&nbsp; say, yeah, that looks great, or You're dumb,&nbsp;&nbsp; I hate this. And okay, sure. There's always&nbsp; those people. So, it never really mattered&nbsp;&nbsp; to me that people read the whole thing. It was&nbsp; more I knew I had to do it to be confident in&nbsp;&nbsp; my own decisions and then I could facilitate&nbsp; a conversation, so it didn't really matter. This episode is brought to you by Eppo. Eppo is a&nbsp; next generation A/B testing and feature management&nbsp;&nbsp; platform built by alumni of Airbnb and Snowflake&nbsp; for modern growth teams. Companies like Twitch,&nbsp;&nbsp; Miro, ClickUp and DraftKings rely on Eppo to&nbsp; power their experiments. Experimentation is&nbsp;&nbsp; increasingly essential for driving growth and for&nbsp; understanding the performance of new features. And&nbsp;&nbsp; Eppo helps you increase experimentation velocity&nbsp; while unlocking rigorous deep analysis in a way&nbsp;&nbsp; that no other commercial tool does. When I was&nbsp; at Airbnb, one of the things that I left most&nbsp;&nbsp; was our experimentation platform where I could&nbsp; set up experiments, easily, troubleshoot issues,&nbsp;&nbsp; and analyze performance all on my own.

Eppo does all that and more with advanced&nbsp;&nbsp; statistical methods that can help you shave&nbsp; weeks off experiment time and accessible UI for&nbsp;&nbsp; diving deeper into performance and out of the box&nbsp; reporting that helps you avoid annoying prolonged&nbsp;&nbsp; analytic cycles. Eppo also makes it easy for&nbsp; you to share experiment insights with your team,&nbsp;&nbsp; sparking new ideas for the A/B testing flywheel,&nbsp; Eppo powers experimentation across every use case,&nbsp;&nbsp; including product growth, machine learning,&nbsp; monetization, and email marketing. Check out&nbsp;&nbsp; Eppo at getepo.com/lenny and 10X your experiment&nbsp; velocity. That's getE-P-P-O.com/lenny. Is there&nbsp;&nbsp; an example of a strategy you were thinking&nbsp; about recently or that you worked on in the&nbsp;&nbsp; past just to give people something concrete of&nbsp; like here's what Maggie thinks of as a question&nbsp;&nbsp; she's going to develop a strategy around? Yeah, I think, obviously this is where product&nbsp;&nbsp; content gets really challenging because&nbsp; obviously I can't really talk about the&nbsp;&nbsp; stuff I'm currently working on. Just tell us all of the secrets.&nbsp;&nbsp; And that know. The toast PR department would be really&nbsp;&nbsp; unhappy with me. It's questions like, if&nbsp; you're a director of product somewhere,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe you're running a section of a business and&nbsp; it's annual planning.

We're in Q4. What are you&nbsp;&nbsp; going to do next year? How do you answer that&nbsp; question? How do you back up your choices for&nbsp;&nbsp; that? You use a doc like this. Maybe you are&nbsp; realizing that the product that you're working&nbsp;&nbsp; on doesn't really matter, it's not really making&nbsp; an impact. You're kind of treading water. I would&nbsp;&nbsp; use this as a tool to figure out, okay, well what&nbsp; else could you do? So, yeah, quarterly planning,&nbsp;&nbsp; annual planning. If you feel like your team needs&nbsp; to make a pivot or if you think that there's&nbsp;&nbsp; a really interesting new opportunity that your&nbsp; business or your team should go after, is another&nbsp;&nbsp; time I might use something like this. Awesome. This reminds me a little bit of,&nbsp;&nbsp; I keep mentioning this chat with Bill Carr that&nbsp; I had who is an early Amazon exec and how the&nbsp;&nbsp; narrative approach at Amazon, one of the benefits&nbsp; of that and the reasons they go there is partly&nbsp;&nbsp; for you to realize this is a bad idea before&nbsp; anyone even needs to give you feedback. And&nbsp;&nbsp; that's why they force you to write six pages in&nbsp; depth about your idea and then it goes in these&nbsp;&nbsp; concentric circles through the company.

And&nbsp; idea is like, here's okay, and this is just&nbsp;&nbsp; not a good idea. Here's all the reasons why. So,&nbsp; I think there's a lot of similarities there. Yeah, there are many, many times when if you&nbsp; combine this artifact and process with the point&nbsp;&nbsp; about simplification where through that process&nbsp; you just start cutting so many things because&nbsp;&nbsp; then what happens is, let's say you've gone&nbsp; through this exercise and you're like, okay, I&nbsp;&nbsp; know exactly what my three things are that I want&nbsp; to work on. Then there's a moment where you take&nbsp;&nbsp; the strategy and then you look at your roadmap and&nbsp; they're never the same. And the roadmap is just&nbsp;&nbsp; bloated with all of this random stuff that like,&nbsp; oh, well, we have to do that because of this,&nbsp;&nbsp; or we have to do that because of that. This thing we're still working on,&nbsp;&nbsp; this is like six months delayed, so we're still&nbsp; going to do the thing. And then all of a sudden&nbsp;&nbsp; you've got 90% of your resources committed to&nbsp; things that don't track against your strategy.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it's a really interesting moment as a leader&nbsp; especially to sit there and go, well, what do we&nbsp;&nbsp; do?

What do you do when you have that problem? And&nbsp; especially if you're a PM, you probably don't have&nbsp;&nbsp; the agency to say, scrap the entire roadmap and&nbsp; work on my new strategy. But at least it allows&nbsp;&nbsp; you to think about critically about whether&nbsp; you should be doing what you're doing and&nbsp;&nbsp; allows you to evaluate whether those things are&nbsp; still the most important things to work on. I'm going to summarize the template real&nbsp; quick, and then I'm going to have another&nbsp;&nbsp; question kind of along the lines. So, if you're&nbsp; trying to create your own little template,&nbsp;&nbsp; you start with the mission of the business,&nbsp; and then I imagine you also share the mission&nbsp;&nbsp; of your team because oftentimes it's a little&nbsp; more specific, if you're working on it like a&nbsp;&nbsp; product team strategy. Then there's a landscape&nbsp; of what's happening. So, you include competitive,&nbsp;&nbsp; SWOT analysis of competition risks, product&nbsp; state, business state, things like that. And then you share the current goals&nbsp; of what you're trying to achieve as a&nbsp;&nbsp; team slash business. And there's an account,&nbsp; honest accounting of what's happening in the&nbsp;&nbsp; product and technical hurdles and things&nbsp; like that that'll keep you from moving,&nbsp;&nbsp; I guess, achieving some of these goals.

And&nbsp; then you share, here's the opportunity I see,&nbsp;&nbsp; how we win and how we actually achieve this&nbsp; opportunity where we place bets and things like&nbsp;&nbsp; that, or we could place bets. Then challenges of&nbsp; doing this, what needs to be true for this to be&nbsp;&nbsp; possible? And then you finally get to, here's what&nbsp; I think we should do, essentially the solution,&nbsp;&nbsp; ideally three bullet points, and then the plan.&nbsp; And I imagine the plan is step one, get sign&nbsp;&nbsp; off from exec. Step two, resource the team. Step&nbsp; three, start on this design research sprint. Pretty much. Awesome. All right. Amazing. Somebody will create&nbsp;&nbsp; this template if you don't end up doing it. Yeah. There's another- I hope somebody does. Okay. That'd be awesome. If they do, I will&nbsp; tweet it and we put it in the show notes. Great. So many promises&nbsp;&nbsp; already from this podcast. Along the same lines,&nbsp; you also have a one-pager template and process&nbsp;&nbsp; that I think people find really useful. So, how&nbsp; about we chat about that one briefly and then I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; going to go in a whole different direction. Okay. Yeah, I don't think I have much to say&nbsp;&nbsp; about this.

That has not been said by many&nbsp; people many times, but whether it's a spec,&nbsp;&nbsp; a PRD, a one pager, I don't even know what else&nbsp; people call it. It's the document that you use&nbsp;&nbsp; to define the thing that you're doing as a product&nbsp; team, and that means product design, engineering,&nbsp;&nbsp; your little squad. And what I think is really&nbsp; useful about this process is that it's the PM's&nbsp;&nbsp; artifact. So, designers produce designs, engineers&nbsp; write code. What do PMs do? A lot of people might&nbsp;&nbsp; say nothing. In theory, we write at least this&nbsp; document and it can be a pain. I've seen lots&nbsp;&nbsp; of ways where it hasn't been done very well, but&nbsp; when I think it's done really well and when it's&nbsp;&nbsp; really effective is it's a tool that allows the&nbsp; PM to start with why. And if you structure it&nbsp;&nbsp; correctly, the most important section in my&nbsp; opinion in the document is the first part,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is like what is the background and context? What is the problem, why does it matter and why&nbsp;&nbsp; does it matter now? And if you get those&nbsp; things right, the rest gets really easy,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it gives you a chance as a PM to center the&nbsp; team around the problem, why that problem exists,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether it's created by your own product or it's&nbsp; something the user is experiencing and why that&nbsp;&nbsp; problem is worth solving.

That's a part that I&nbsp; think people sometimes forget to think about and&nbsp;&nbsp; why it's we're solving right now versus all the&nbsp; other problems you could be solving and then it&nbsp;&nbsp; can become the home base of the decisions that you&nbsp; make along the way. So, I think it's best when you&nbsp;&nbsp; have those sections and then also best when you&nbsp; write down on this day, we made this decision&nbsp;&nbsp; or we decided not to do this or we decided only&nbsp; to solve this part of the problem, not this part&nbsp;&nbsp; of the problem. Keeping a running list of that&nbsp; and a link off to all the different artifacts&nbsp;&nbsp; and research and things is helpful for a team. So, just to summarize, what would be the headings&nbsp;&nbsp; again, just if someone's taking notes&nbsp; and wants to create the rule template? I don't think these templates have to be really&nbsp; complicated. It's like background and context.&nbsp;&nbsp; The problem. I would literally write why this&nbsp; problem matters and why this problem matters&nbsp;&nbsp; now. Don't make it complicated, just answer those&nbsp; questions and if you can do that, and then again,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's only really helpful if then you bring that&nbsp; document before you go any further to your team&nbsp;&nbsp; and you use it to have a conversation and you&nbsp; get the smart people around you to take shots&nbsp;&nbsp; at it.

I should have mentioned this earlier&nbsp; with the strategy. The first person I go to is&nbsp;&nbsp; typically speaking my engineering counterpart and&nbsp; I say, shred this, go through it, rip it apart,&nbsp;&nbsp; vomit comments on it, tear this down how it gets&nbsp; better. And as a PM you can't be precious about&nbsp;&nbsp; your work. You need people to poke holes in it. The why this matters now point is so interesting.&nbsp;&nbsp; I don't often hear that and I think it's&nbsp; such an important part of specs and plans&nbsp;&nbsp; and strategies because there's so many things&nbsp; you can do and there's certain things that are&nbsp;&nbsp; perishable that you can only do now. That if you&nbsp; don't do now you miss up the opportunity. And so&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that's a really interesting element that&nbsp; most people don't include and it reminds me of,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think I've done enough podcast episodes now&nbsp; where I'm just connecting all these things as&nbsp;&nbsp; people are talking. &nbsp; the John Nash thing happening where Karri,&nbsp;&nbsp; the founder of Linear talked about this concept of&nbsp; side quests as a founder. Because he's so good at&nbsp;&nbsp; staying focused and I was just like, "How do you&nbsp; stay focused and just get stuff done when you have&nbsp;&nbsp; so many people coming out?" He's just like,&nbsp; "There's the main quest and then there's the&nbsp;&nbsp; side quests and side quest I don't need to&nbsp; do right now.

There's the main quest which is&nbsp;&nbsp; build up really successful business." And I feel&nbsp; like this is a good example of that in action. Yeah, I love his take on quality and taste too. Yeah. What a gem. Yeah, big fan of that. But yeah, I mean it's&nbsp; really hard to stay disciplined, it's hard&nbsp;&nbsp; to stay focused and to your point, there's a&nbsp; million things you could do at any given time,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially if you work at a bigger company.&nbsp; And so the why now is an important question&nbsp;&nbsp; to answer because if not, somebody's going to&nbsp; ask you. So, you may as well think about it. Yeah, it's interesting why now comes up a&nbsp; lot in investing in startups but rarely in&nbsp;&nbsp; product building and it feels like it should.&nbsp; Although I will say in the research I've done,&nbsp;&nbsp; why now ends up not being that important&nbsp; for startups being successful or not. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I think there's a two sides to that coin. Anyway,&nbsp; I'm going to move on to a different topic and this&nbsp;&nbsp; might become a new thing that we do and I'm going&nbsp; to call it contrarian corner. I asked you if you&nbsp;&nbsp; have contrarian opinions about things before we&nbsp; started recording this episode and you had some&nbsp;&nbsp; really good ones.

So, there's a couple topics I'm&nbsp; going to chat about and we'll see if this becomes&nbsp;&nbsp; a recurring theme and you're laughing and nodding&nbsp; your head, what are you thinking as I say this? I'm thinking about when I had a podcast, you&nbsp; would do a show on a topic and we would click&nbsp;&nbsp; the end recording button and then every single&nbsp; guest would be like, I had no idea what I was&nbsp;&nbsp; doing. I made it all up, it was waterfall.&nbsp; None of that matters. I didn't know what I&nbsp;&nbsp; was ... People would say the wildest stuff and I&nbsp; would sit there as a PM and just think what. We&nbsp;&nbsp; just talked about this framework, we just talked&nbsp; about this thing and that's how you're supposed&nbsp;&nbsp; to do it. And then they would get off the official&nbsp; part and just say, yeah, it's wild. Nothing goes&nbsp;&nbsp; the way you want it to go. We're all just kind of&nbsp; making it up as we go. And so I hope that you get&nbsp;&nbsp; more of those takes in this part of the show. I'm very sensitive to that point right now because&nbsp;&nbsp; someone just tweeted about how they're just&nbsp; finding that many of my newsletter posts about&nbsp;&nbsp; how companies write product are the ideal version&nbsp; of what they do and I rarely or they rarely share,&nbsp;&nbsp; here's all the challenges we're having,&nbsp; which I think there's truth to that,&nbsp;&nbsp; but I also get into a lot of failures on this&nbsp; podcast.

Actually, I think the podcast is a&nbsp;&nbsp; lot more of just here's things that go wrong&nbsp; versus the newsletter. So, I'm just like shit,&nbsp;&nbsp; I need to do more of that. So, I love that you&nbsp; mentioned that and let's see what we can get into.&nbsp;&nbsp; But I guess maybe before we get there, is there an&nbsp; example of something that didn't go just along the&nbsp;&nbsp; lines of some sort of failure slash mistake?
