---
title: "Naming expert shares process for creating billion-dollar brands: Vercel, Azure, Windsurf, Sonos"
date: "2025-06-29"
type: "podcast"
guest: ""
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "David Placek is the founder of Lexicon Branding, a company that focuses exclusively on the development of brand names for competitive advantage. Lexicon is behind iconic names such as Sonos, Microsoft"
word_count: 14520
youtube_id: "adyIaTopO6g"
---

your brand name. Nothing's going to be used more often or for longer than that name. Design will change, message will change, products will change, but that name is there. What's a name that you came up with that you had to fight super hard for that the client just hated? When we presented Sonos, it was rejected because it's not entertainment-like. We argued about that because I said, "This is outside looking in, but I don't see you as an entertainment company." Humans do like to be comfortable. Part of our job here is to help people to give the confidence going bigger and being uncomfortable. There's a quote that I found of yours. If your team is comfortable with the name, chances are you don't have the name yet. We look for polarization. We look for tension in a team arguing about these things. Polarization is a sign of strength in the word. Most clients, they come to a naming project absolutely believing with full confidence that they're going to know it when they see it. And the truth is it almost never happens. Most people listening to this are founders. A lot of PMs on product teams.

Let's say they have a couple weeks got to come up with a name. What should they do? Today my guest is David Classic. David is the founder of Lexicon branding which pioneered the field of brand naming and invented a few names that you may have heard of including PowerBook, Pentium, Blackberry, Swiffer, the Impossible Burger. Also Versel and Windurf and Cap Cut and Azure. In our conversation, David opens up about the very specific process that he and his team go through to find winning names, including a simple exercise that you can do with you and your team to help you find the right name in just a few weeks. We also talk about why a great name is worth spending your time on, why you won't know a great name when you see it, and why you need to feel uncomfortable about the name first. Also, why big team brainstorms don't ever lead to great names, the stories behind names like Pentium and Sonos and Versel and Windsurf. also such interesting insights about the feeling and energy of every letter of the alphabet and so much more. This episode is designed for anyone trying to figure out a name for their product or company and also just for anyone that's interested in hearing the stories of how some of the most iconic names came to be.

If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube. And if you become a paid subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year free of a bunch of amazing products, including Bolt, Linear, Superhum, Notion, Perplexity, Granola, and more. Check it out at lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle. With that, I bring you David Classic. This episode is brought to you by WorkOS. If you're building a SAS app, at some point your customers will start asking for enterprise features like SML authentication and skim provisioning. That's where work OS comes in, making it fast and painless to add enterprise features to your app. Their APIs are easy to understand so that you can ship quickly and get back to building other features. Today, hundreds of companies are already powered by work OS, including ones you probably know like Versell, Web Flow, and Loom. Work OS also recently acquired Warrant, the fine grain authorization service. Warren's product is based on a groundbreaking authorization system called Zanzibar, which was originally designed for Google to power Google Docs and YouTube. This enables fast authorization checks at enormous scale while maintaining a flexible model that can be adapted to even the most complex use cases.

If you're currently looking to build role-based access control or other enterprise features like single signon, skim, or user management, you should consider work OS. It's a drop-in replacement for Ozero and supports up to 1 million monthly active users for free. Check it out at workos.com to learn more. That's works.com. Last year, 1.3% of the global GDP flowed through Stripe. That's over 1.4 trillion. And driving that huge number are the millions of businesses growing more rapidly with Stripe. For industry leaders like Forbes, Atlassian, OpenAI, and Toyota, Stripe isn't just financial software. It's a powerful partner that simplifies how they move money, making it as seamless and borderless as the internet itself. For example, Herz boosted its online payment authorization rates by 4% after migrating to Stripe. And imagine seeing a 23% lift in revenue like Forbes did just 6 months after switching to Stripe for subscription management. Stripe has been leveraging AI for the last decade to make its product better at growing revenue for all businesses from smarter checkouts to fraud prevention and beyond. Join the ranks of over half of the Fortune 100 companies that trust Stripe to drive change. Learn more at stripe.com.

David, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. Well, thank you. I I'm excited about today. Um, and looking forward to the conversation. Me, too. These are actually my favorite kinds of conversations because this topic is so outside of my wheelhouse and I know I'm just going to learn a ton. Also, this is just something that every founder and product builder has to think about at some point and they have no idea what they're doing and then their name becomes so core to their identity. It's thy the word they say more than any other word and I feel like I've never heard uh advice on how to do this well. So, uh I'm really excited for this conversation. I'm going to just dive into a question and the question is just what's a name that you came up with and your team came up with that you had to fight super hard for that the client just hated and you ended up winning and now is just such an obviously awesome name that everyone loves. The story I like to tell is a story of Sonos. uh one a great client team.

I worked with all the founders, but at at the time they were stuck on being in a brand name that put them in the entertainment business. And so when we presented Sonos, which has many qualities to it, uh um they it was rejected because it it doesn't have enough sort of emotion to it. It's not entertainmentlike. And you know, we argued about that because I said, I don't, this is outside looking in, but I don't see you as an entertainment company. You you makes speakers that allow for the flow of entertainment through these uh things. And Sonos is about sound, but it had a particular quality. It's it's called a palendrome, right? So- which really means that you can flip it and and it means the same thing. In the case of Sonos, you could all also turn it upside down and it was essentially the same, right? And so I that got them thinking about this, but they were still has so I left that meeting there in Santa Barbara and I came back and they were still struggling with it. And I went I got on a plane, didn't even build them for this, went back down to Santa Barbara and met with them again and said,"I really believe in this name and I think it's the right for you." And at a certain point, one of the founders, you know, Bob McFarland, who who's just a wonderful client, I could see him thinking and he said, you know, we're trying to name this for ourselves and what we really should be doing is naming it for the marketplace and the customers.

And you know, I think Sonos now is the right name. And that and I felt really good about that. and he later wrote me a note about uh about how I helped to do that and we and we use it sometimes in credentials presentations because it's such a nice note. But but Sonos is something I'm so I'm so glad that I had this internal energy to I got to go down there and make a bid for this. I don't I don't do that often by the way, but I felt very strongly about Sonos. I love Sonos. I love the name. I have many Sonos products. How often does this happen where the client is just no this is not the name. and we have this bigger vision, we have a whole other idea of it. And then you convince them. Well, it happens all the time. Um, and and it's a little bit birectional, right? We we you know, there's most clients and I can understand this, right? They they come to a a naming project, absolutely believing with full confidence that they're going to know it when they see it. And the truth is, it almost never happens.

I have now uh I think this year we'll hit 4,000 projects that we've completed. And it's interesting, you know, we'll tell people in a very polite way, you're not going to know when you see it. But but I know they don't believe me. Um and and even when I I you could see them thinking that you know what, he was right. I'm I I I I really have to think about this. I have to proc process it. And part of that, part of why clients don't like the bolder names, the more imaginative names that we present is they are looking for comfort. And that's the opposite that what you want to do. And part of our our our job here is to help people to give the confidence that going bolder and bigger is and and being uncomfortable. There's a I use the expression there is no power in comfort. uh not in the marketplace. Wow, there's so much here already. Okay, so this idea of you're not gonna know it when you see it is something that people come in with thinking like once I see it, it'll be obvious just why why is that never almost never the case?

Is it because the name has to be something that is uncomfortable? There's a lot of psychology uh to this which ironically I I I never even took a psychology class in in college or or graduate school. But the first element is humans do like to be comfortable and one of the mechanisms of comfort is if something's been successful before then I feel like I can approve it or select it. Uh this is why um you know movies like uh Harry Potter or even uh novels like Jack London's Call of the Wild get rejected so many times. I think Harry Potter was rejected 16 or 18 times and Jack London's a book even more than that. I mean, think about it. He's he's pitching a book and you say, "What are you talking about here? You're saying a dog becomes a wolf? I I've never heard of anything like that." So, so we really do have to help people think about it's not about the past. You're actually creating the future. And we really talk to people and emphasize the idea this this isn't a name you're creating. this we're creating an experience for you. We're going to work together and we really our conversations always start with talk to us about behave now and how you want to behave in the future as opposed to tell me about your positioning, tell me about your values, tell me about your mission.

That that's really kind of old thinking. It's very traditional and that did work, you know, 25 or 30 years ago, but this is a far more complex uh in interconnected world, a digital world now that that that stuff just doesn't create it doesn't create names like Sonos or, you know, some of our other credentials that we we probably will talk about today. Yeah, we're going to talk about just the process you guys go through. So stay tuned for that. But before we get to that is there's another story you can share that kind of shows this idea of being bold. I I'll talk about Microsoft's Azure. Um so when Microsoft came to us they were pretty much stuck uh and and Marcus does and in many ways it to their credit a lot of things don't need to be named. They don't need trademarks. They don't need brand names. They need descriptors. And so they came to us to develop a name that started or ended with cloud made sense to them because it was a cloud service. And our reaction was if you do that uh you're going to be in an ocean of other cloud this cloud that and you have an opportunity as Microsoft here to to really emerge as a leader in this.

And so, you know, there was a discussion about, okay, we'll we'll take a look at those, but we'd like to see some cloud some cloud names, okay? Which is easy to do, by the way. Okay. And so, we did that and we along the way we we uh we came up with this word Azure, which is, you know, another word for blue. And so, there was a link to clouds, blue sky, clouds, things like that. and but we really presented it based on its linguistic qualities. It's it's a noisy word that Z in there starts with an A, you know, and it ends in a nice smooth flow. So, we we really strive to do create names that are balanced. And in a very busy competitive world, having some a strong signal which is generated by noise is a good thing. Uh the reaction wasn't wasn't good. Uh you know, one of the clients said, "That's just a dumb idea." And I, you know, we this remarks like that at this point after these four decades, it sort of rolls off my my back like a water off a duck is what my grandmother would say.

But but um I I I think along the way um as we talked about it, they began to warm up to this. So now of course it's I don't know hundred billion dollar brand or or something like that. But that's an example of I haven't seen that before. I'm very comfortable with cloud. Cloud is what it is. That's that's the you know we're describing it but that's a statement and I think that well I don't think I know that's what I said in one of the presentations is you don't want to make a statement here. You want to you want to start a story right? and and an Azure is going to behave differently in the marketplace than you know cloud pro- which is I think one of the names that we presented to them on the other side at their request. I'm glad they went with Azure. Let me actually ask this question. I know you're biased but just how important is a great name? Like if you had a better name than a product that was better than you, does that make a big difference? Just anything you can share there to help people see this is the power of a great name.

Let's look just at the at the reality of this. Your brand name, whether it's a product name or a company name, nothing's going to be used more often or for longer than that name. Design will change, message will change, products will change, right? But that name is there. So I like to talk about this idea of cumulative advantage, right? over time as people buy more and more of the product they see it more often they that their bond between you and that brand uh or them and the brand I should say becomes stronger and stronger. So you want that name to to to stick in their mind to be distinctive be because distinctiveness is what creates that cumulative uh advantage. The second thing is this notion of what I call asymmetric advantage. It makes perfect sense and most people most clients agree with this when we when we say this is that even before you launch this brand. Why not start with an advantage in the marketplace and you won't get an advantage if you're descriptive? If you are cloud pro and there's 10 other cloud services you're not going to stand out in the marketplace.

you won't have the ability to create that necessarily that cumulative advantage in the marketplace. So, so those are those are my two reasons why names are I think you know the done right and we we do we do talk about our mission is not creating good names. A lot of people can do that. Our mission is to create the right name for for for clients and and because the right name does deliver asymmetric advantage and cumulative advantage for you and that for us has almost unlimited value. This is a great answer. Essentially what you're saying is it's not going to like necessarily make or break you but it gives you an advantage. A great name gives you an advantage especially if you're just getting started. The like you need every advantage you can get. Exactly. And this is maybe a little bit off off a tangent, but one of the best books on marketing I've ever read, which is not a book on marketing. It's and you may have read it along the way um in in college if you studied any Greek or uh uh you know, classics. It's called the Millian Dialogues. And it's a dialogue.

It's will take anybody listening to this maybe 25 minutes to read it between the Athenians and the government of Milos. And the Athenians had decided that they needed that island and they went and approached them very nice way but that we want to take over the island. Nothing will change. You'll be taxed a little bit but we'll protect you. And the Athenians had thought every aspect about how to take that island before. So they by the time they got there, they had created asymmetric advantage in terms of ships and men and all this other stuff. It's just there by by the way in the book there's no mention of marketing or brand strategy or any of these things, but if you read it, you begin to see that it's marketing really is about asymmetric advantage. And so why not start from the very beginning with with an advantage? That's the value of an aid. Let's dive into the actual process you guys go through. And I want to read uh a quote that GMA Roush uh shared when I asked him about what it was like working with you. He's the CEO and co-founder of Verscell, which you guys worked with.

I definitely want to hear that story, by the way. So he said, "Before David, the ability to name something was like charisma. You either have it or you don't. It was so surreal to watch his team distill it down to a science." So, let me just ask you, what does that science look like? What are the steps to coming up with an amazing name for your product or company that you guys go through? That's very nice of Germo. He he is uh a very impressive uh uh you know, innovator in in this category and we greatly enjoyed working with him. Well, the our process is really I break it down in three steps. Um first, we have to identify then we invent and then we implement. But so it's it's just three things. It's not it's not rocket science, but it does it's a combination of creativity and discipline, right? And obviously talented people and experience in these things. So let's just kind of go through those things in in the first section of identify. It's really trying to find out from the client. Let's talk about behavior, right? So how do you how are you behaving now and how do you want to behave in the future, right?

That behavior is birectional. In other words, the marketplace behaves towards a versel. You know, that's the name we created for GMO and they behave towards the marketplace and and and that's an important point because everything you know buildings are birectional even you know the look at a building you behave differently towards a temple than you or a church versus you know a holiday in terms of how that architecture states. So we focus on that behavior is closely aligned for us with experience. How do you want this brand to the experience of this brand? Now when we listen to those things, we begin to think about, you know, rhythm of the of the name. Um so something like Dani has a lot of rhythm to it, right? It's kind of calming, right? Uh and and so we'll begin to extract things from that discussion on experience. We will then also as part of this first phase look at the competition. We call that developing a landscape and we're looking for what are the words you know the what are the brand names first and then what language are they using in this space. So so because we want to be we have to be distinctive.

If a brand name isn't distinctive you lose right then you're imitating and that's a form of suicide. I think you know that's a famous quote from some I think the president of PNG you know 50 years ago or something like that. So so that's that first phase which allows us to create what we call a creative framework and we don't even use the word objectives here because that gets too logical. We we actually framework for us is a metaphor for a window for us and our teams and our linguist to travel through to to kind of open things up so that we're not coming back with a narrow list of names. We're coming back with names that have depth and breadth and have different experiences and personalities to them. And clients will sign off on that and then we get going uh this. So now we're moved to the invent stage. And in the invent stage, we do really two things. You can look at this as, you know, two layers of our process. And I I think the second layer is probably what makes us quite unique in the marketplace. And it it's the result of millions of dollars of of of R&amp;D on our part.

So the first thing is no surprise to anyone, we we work with, you know, creative individuals and we don't use this this will be contrarian. We don't use large brainstorming sessions. I did when I first started the company. I used freelancers. I used brains large brainstorming groups. And along the way through some analysis, we really discovered that that was not really working for us that actually the names were coming from employees and from small groups. And so we've moved our process to at least two or three small teams of two people. And each of those teams, so let's say we, you know, on on significant projects, we always use three teams. Uh, and each team gets a different briefing. One team knows everything about the project, but the other teams don't. We'll replace if we're working for Microsoft, the second team thinks they're working for Apple. I mean, they know it's disguise. We're not keeping this from anyone. And then the third team, we take it out of computers. And, you know, they might be naming a bicycle or a car or something like that. What we're trying to do is uh open up the coffers of creativity uh for for this.

And so when people are working on what they know is not the real assignment, they are now free to make all kinds of mistakes. And so most of our names have come out of the second or third team because they're Yeah. Yeah, I think the process at some point I I will uh hopefully write a either a a good article on this or maybe even a book, but this process would work for I think a lot of things. I I I know I know it would. All right. Now, what's that second layer that I talked about? Well, we have made significant investments in this area of linguistics and cognitive science. Um and it's in two ways. one building proprietary knowledge. So we know through through research that we funded an extensive amount about an area in language called or linguistics called sound symbolism. So what are the sounds of the 26 letters of the alphabet and what do they do? How do they evoke things? Well, it turns out that that that each of those letters sends out a signal that that creates a certain sort of vibration, if you will, or or experience. Now, there's been research on that over the years, but there were some gaps and we decided to to fill this.

And we, you know, over the years we've had a very good relationship with Stanford University with their department of linguistics with, you know, we we've hired PE linguists from MIT, from Berkeley. We have a linguistic internship here. I actually just ran this number uh preparing for for this discussion. We have employed over four decades now linguists, most of them PhDs, some of them contracts, some of them actual employees. Well, that's a lot of intellectual knowledge. So, we we really have what I call a linguistic engine here. And then we now have an operating network of um I I just checked on this figure yesterday. Uh we have 108 linguists in 76 countries that help us. Some of them do creative work. Others uh w will do just the analysis of of names uh for us. So now we have that creative framework. We have creative teams working on this. Now we're tapping into databases that have, you know, over 18,000 small word units technically called morphines. And so we also can tap in from a sound standpoint. I, you know, what are what are the what are the sounds of reliability? What are the sounds of aliveness?

Um, and and so with Sonos, by the way, we wanted, you know, things that are somewhat noisy, right? And so S is a noisy letter like like um a Z or or even a V. And so you begin to set priorities about what letters we're going to use. And that work from that we call it, you know, an engineering layer sort of floats up into the creative teams. And so it's a a mixture of things at a certain point in time. All right. Now, what happens to all that? At a certain point, usually three to four weeks into this, we might have two or three thousand ideas. I say ideas because they're not all solutions. They're not all workable. They may be just beginning ideas, concepts, and we sift through those. And now one of the major challenges that we face and certainly our clients face is the need to to clear a trademark for it to be not in conflict with a marketplace that is you we're almost reaching a tipping point in terms of difficulty of clearing names here. Uh and so we have parallegals here and we have a trademark attorney and we'll analyze those names.

uh that gets us to a small much smaller set and then we'll do our linguistic work with our linguists and we end up with a set of names to show our clients. We'll do this twice with our with most assignments. Sometimes we'll do just one time depending on timing and budget, but we really try to get two cycles here. Partly because humans love to compare, right? Where you don't if you're looking for a house, you don't just look at the first house, say, "Okay, let's sign us up." you you you look and you learn that we don't need a swimming pool, but we need do need a view. It's the same with names. And so we get feedback from our clients and sometimes that's a co-creative process where a client will come up with a word or a solution and we'll then run that through our our uh screening mechanisms for them. And that and that's really the process. And the the final phase is implementing. Let's actually pause at that because I have so much I want to talk about with this second step and but we'll get to that step three. Uh there's just this is just blowing my mind all the things you guys do here.

This is incredible. There's so many things here that are so un unlike what I expected. First of all, the creative folks that are actually coming up with these names. What are what's kind of like the background of these people? Who are these who are these people? Yeah. So the fundamental quality is they're going to be curious and they're going to be hardworking. Thi this is and hopefully uh and this is hard to screen for but you know uh lower egos. This is unlike the advertising business which I came from, right? six years at in in a large agency where a a creative person or a copywriter can think about something and come in with three or four alternatives, right, in terms of a headline or body copy and that might be refined a little bit and and maybe sent back to the drawing boards alto together, but it it's a relatively simple process, right? Uh and no no disrespect uh intended there. here. I can't just uh sit down and say, "Okay, well, you know, we're naming a new car here, and so I'm going to I'm going to generate a hundred names, and and you generate 100 names, and something will fall out that that just that that won't those names will not there's not enough in in that list to clear through our screens of legal screens, our linguistic screens.

And remember, we start with a creative framework and and and uh criteria that the names need need to meet. So, we're looking for people who can churn out a lot of work and when that's rejected, they just keep going. So, we look for tenacious people. Right now, we have, and we'll probably get to this later, but we have software here that helps people uh uh generate names. not really maybe 5 years down the road it'll actually spit out solutions but now it's helping us to generate ideas and directions and what I you know you know sound symbolism uh ideas um uh word unit prefixes suffixes things like that so so it's relatively easy for anyone that works here to develop a list of two or 30 hundred names over a three or 4 day period where do we find these people um more who are writers from uh you know newspaper reporters because they have to work fast their stories get rejected. people who might have written a novel. Um uh we have hired people from agencies o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o over over o over over the years they work a little less effectively than others who have a speech writer uh from you know I I wrote speeches in Washington DC uh those people have to work hard crank out a lot of material get rejected candidate says I don't like this start over those are more resilient people that's where they come it's not it's not easy to find these people it really it really isn't Uh, let me just throw out here.

I'm gonna ask you after we go through this process what people that don't have the resources and time to do this what they should do to come up with a good name. I'm just going to let people know as they're listening because because I imagine many people are wondering, but let's not go there yet. Okay. How long does this process usually take? What's like the ideal length a company should expect when they want to come up with an amazing name? Uh, for us, the ideal length is is pretty is pretty short. It's eight weeks. uh for larger corporate projects where you have boards and a little more politicking to do and a little few more presentations. Um it's a it's a three-month uh turn and sometimes by the time they approve things and and clear it's a it's a four month u process. Okay, cool. So eight weeks mostly if you're a big company with a lot of red tape you have to work through then longer. Um okay this point you made about a three different teams with different in almost uh context is so interesting. So say let's use windsurf as an example which is an amazing name killing it uh that you guys helped come up with.

So is the idea there? Okay, here's we're naming this uh IDE AI IDE. One of the teams is told no, you're building a bicycle, but here's all the here's all the same brief, but it's a bicycle. And then another team's built you're building a I don't know lap like I don't know something nontechnical essentially, right? Yes. Like a cup. Say more about that. That is amazing because and you're finding that most of the best names come from the groups that aren't build. Let's name an amazing AI ID. This is a good example. So, so in technology, um, there there are some things that that if someone hands you a new phone and you look at it's tangible and it's got a shape and color, things like that, easier to name, but but you know, the the the name of Windsurf before it was Windsurf was codium, right? And so, so it's all about a a type of code or a process for coding that's intangible. And even though we do an awful lot of technology work, it is still hard for us to kind of really get a hold of what that is, right? So, so our rule here is if there's something that is intangible like that, we have to make it tangible.

And sometimes we do that not by not by giving a team and sometimes it's an individual the assignment to create ideas for the brand itself but to just dive into a particular context. And in this case with Windsurf it was this this is about sort of flow about giving people that are coding something uh much more of a flow process a you know a smoother process a more dynamic process. So in that case, one team was just given the task of we want to look at a list of all the things that can communicate either in a real word like flow or metaphorically or in a sport about that kind of dynamics, that kind of movement. And there was wind surf sitting on a list. I mean it's sometimes this is just it really just that simple of course you have to have the right framework and you have to give the right sort of directions to someone and uh you uh wind surf for us particularly for me you it checks all the boxes it's it's a wonderful image it's an experience literally a physical experience it's a compound right two words put together we know from the research we've invested in that compounds like PowerBook or Facebook are multipliers of of of associations because there's wind and there's circles around that, you know, and and then there's surf images around that.

So 1 plus one equals three, right? It's interesting that when we present compounds to clients, we we we often get the comment, well, yeah, it's a little bit long and it's a compound. I'd rather have a shorter single word. And then that that's why we actually did research on just how effective our compounds so we we could pass that information along. We passed that along to the the team at at that time. Kodium by the way could not have been a you know more intelligent, nicer, uh more respectful team that we've we've worked with. I'm I'm so glad for for their success. But we explained to them about the multiplier effect of compounds. We showed them imagery that they could use, right? I mean, it's simple to to execute on something like that. And so that that's how that that's how that came about. I I'll stop there and see if you need more information or not. Let me actually follow this thread real quick. It's going to be kind of a tangent. You guys have been working with AI companies more and more recently, which is so interesting. Is what's what's different about naming AI products from traditional products?

Non AAI, I guess. First off, we are working mostly with engineers um and uh engineers who haven't, you know, delved into the world of kind of creativity and and necessarily marketing uh and and that that's their strength and and what we have to do is we have to sort of balance their strength with our strength. So there's a little bit of a challenge there, but I I think we we deal um pretty well with that. Secondly, this is the fastest moving progressing category I have ever experienced. And and I I have that perspective, right? I I I went through the early days of of the internet, right? And and and um the worldwide web and that was moving pretty fast, but the internet compared to this looks like a a a daycare school or something like that. I mean, so, so we're we're challenged by just keeping up with with developments, right? Third thing, and this is the creative challenge here, is that engineers come to us wanting more sophisticated names, right? Where they you're likely to end up with another kodium or an Anderil or an anthropic. And we when when we saw this trend of that AI is going to take off and and it was an intuitive feeling on my part.

I just you know I could have been wrong. I said let's let's find out what's going on here. So so both not only like who's developing the products but how do people think about AI? And we did a series of research. We, you know, I probably invested $20,000 or so. And we interviewed consumers in Europe, South Korea, just picked out one country in Asia, and in America, uh, and developers in those three, and they really have different views. Developers are all totally positive on it. Okay? They see the future. They see a big future. Not too concerned. Some are, but, most aren't. Consumers are skeptical. uh worried about it, worried about their jobs, see the hope in it, those types of things, but haven't got the handle. So, Kodium is an example where we said, "We think what you're doing needs to be much more tangible and something that people can grab on to and much more natural as opposed to a podium." And they listen to us as simple as that. And and and in this case, we were right. And by the way, there's also, I have to say, there's some luck to this.

Windsurf happened to be available and uh they they saw it uh right away. Not not not exactly right away, but it took about a week going back and forth uh to to to to select it. So, let me stop there and see if if that's answers your question. Absolutely. And it feels like most AI companies end up having a different name for their product than their company. I've noticed this funny trend. Cursor was any sphere. Bold was stack stack blitz. Windsurf was kodium. Basically everyone when does it make sense to change your name? Windsurf just officially changed their entire company name to windsurf from kodium. It was just a product. So let me just ask you that when does it make sense? Feels like a huge deal and a very challenging thing to do. It is challenging and it and the larger you are and the more customer base you have it it becomes uh you know a significant uh uh project. So the first thing is you you have to you have to make an argument that it's worth the change, right? That that we're going to be better off by changing our name.

So there's there's a couple situations where you want to you want to change your name. First one is let's let's focus first on startups. Startups get going early. They you know they they get into Y Combinator or something like that. They're raising money and they just need a name. And although they know what they're doing and that may change by 10 or 15 degrees, uh it's almost like we just got to have a name. I mean, and and that is the absolute expression I hear from when when a startup calls and says we want to change our name. You know, we started off a a year and a half ago. We just need a new name for the documents and so we chose X, right? And it's not a very good name. So that's that's example number one. Number two is the company actually has, you know, pivoted, right? And so the name that they have no longer really reflects who who they are or who they're becoming and which makes that name ineffective. And the third is that a a company has merged and and it's time now to to to create a new start and reflect to the marketplace that we're we're we're new now maybe bigger uh we have but certainly we have more capabilities and we want you to know about it and because of that we're changing our name to blank which reflects those capabilities at some some level.

I'm excited to have Andrew Luo joining us today. Andrew is CEO of OneKema, one of our longtime podcast sponsors. Welcome, Andrew. Thanks for having me, Lenny. Great to be here. So, what is new with One Schkeema? I know that you work with some of my favorite companies like Ramp and Vanta and Watershed. I heard you guys launched a new data intake product that automates the hours of manual work that teams spend importing and mapping and integrating CSV and Excel files. Yes. So, we just launched the 2.0 of one schema file feeds. We've rebuilt it from the ground up with AI. We saw so many customers coming to us with teams of data engineers that struggled with the manual work required to clean messy spreadsheets. File feeds 2.0 allows non-technical teams to automate the process of transforming CSV and Excel files with just a simple prompt. We support all of the trickiest file integrations, SFTP, S3, and even email. I can tell you that if my team had to build integrations like this, how nice would it be to take this off our road map and instead use something like one schema? Absolutely, Lenny. We've heard so many horror stories of outages from even just a single bad record in transactions, employee files, purchase orders, you name it.

Debugging these issues is often like finding a needle in a haststack. One schema stops any bad data from entering your system and automatically validates your files, generating error reports with the exact issues in all bad files. I know that importing incorrect data can cause all kinds of pain for your customers and quickly lose their trust. Andrew, thank you so much for joining me. If you want to learn more, head on over to onskeema.co. co that's oneskeema.co. I want to come back to this linguist piece which I know is really unique to the way you guys operate and it's so interesting. So you employed you've said over 250 linguists over the course of your business career. This linguist step, the way you described it is they're not coming up with names. They're more kind of like a filter for here's all the names we've come up with. Here's the ones that are good linguistically. Is that right? Or is that team also suggesting names? Yeah, some some of the people there on particular uh depending on the assignment will actually help us create uh names for for sure. Right. And so we have linguists here and then we have in the network we have linguists and and those linguists are contracts uh to to us not full-time employees.

So so there's a little bit of both but the preponderance of their work in our linguistic network is to evaluate names. Not only just is it does it mean something negative or positive, but are there cultural implications to it, political implications or even things that a natural disaster that would have happened somewhere that that you know no one here would know about. Even if we had I if we this was in Italy and there was a you know a bridge or a flood that killed a lot of people. someone that speaks Italian very well here, say at Berkeley University, but has lived here for 20 years, wouldn't know about that. And we we we don't we don't want anything linguistically that would slow our clients down. And so that's why we've invested in building this network. We have a woman that runs the network for so it's not an insignificant um uh facet of our business that we have to run and manage. Is there a name you love that didn't pass the linguistic filter that ended up being like, "Oh that's a really bad name in this culture." Yeah. Well, it it happens uh frequently uh where we will find something that that isn't really terrible, but it's s it's worrisome to us.

Um it's interesting you know uh cultures like um Australian uh or in people in Austral they have a lot of interesting expressions right and so we do find things that you know this sounds like it's a certain kind of you know shrimp and things like that and we eliminate those things and then we find things that have sort of sexual connotations we eliminate those I would say it happens you every third or fourth project, we will find something that we will eliminate and never show the client and something you love. You're like, "Okay, I guess we can show that one." That's true. That happens. It does. It does. You also said this really interesting uh thing about how every letter of the alphabet has a vibrance and an experience. Can you give a few examples of that? I know you're not the person doing that work specifically, but just what are some letter feelings? Well, well, I yeah, I I the the work is from the linguist, but I'm at this point I'm I'm pretty adept in it. So, let you know, let let's look at um I'll start with the letter V because it it is it is so illustrative um of of what this is about.

V from our research that we've done is the most alive and vibrant sound in the English alphabet. And that's whether you were you were born in Rome or in you know uh Salelito Cal California. Um so if you know that if if you know that as you go around the world uh there are going to be some exceptions to it. It's going to have that vibrancy. So look at Corvette. I mean that they probably didn't know about V, but it's a perfect name for a car that's fast and has a you know big engine that roars. Think about Viagra. same idea. Um, and there's been surprises to us. Uh, B, the the sound of the letter B is is one of the most reliable sounds in the English alphabet. That was one of our rationale, by the way, for Blackberry. Right. We be because that's another example of a client who thought we were I mean, the the founder actually said, I I thought the people at Lexicon were crazy when they presented BlackBerry. And we said, well, let's let's stop and look at some of the assets here. First off, you know, black colors technology.

Yes, not everybody knows the word berry, but we have those two B's. We talked about the nature of a compound. And all of a sudden, people at least lean forward to consider it as opposed to rejecting it to too fast. Um, so so those are just two examples. I mentioned Z that in Azure, that's noisy letter. Um, uh, X is fast and crisp as a sound. Um, and of course there's semantic value to all these letters, too. X is about innovation from from aircraft to computers. And so you you have to look at the semantics of it and the sound symbol of it. This is so fascinating. I could listen to this stuff all day. Uh, just thinking about Versel with the V, but very aligns with what they're trying to do. Just like very strong opinionated Yes. way of working and GMO he feels like a V a V person he is and there's an example of a group that had a lot of confidence right and and what their product is is very innovative and so we had permission there to create something new because Verscell is a coin solution right but notice that we put some very simple easy to process things together there or ver ver you in this case.

So we have you know invinovers right truth and wine things like that you have uh verde green so so very familiar and then there's cell like accelerate something which is really what they do they accelerate a client's performance so that was a relatively easy name for us to present and for the we were excited about and for them to sort of um grasp um by the way That's uh that's known as processing fluency which is um when you when you think about how the brain processes information. Um we're told by a number of cognitive science that our brains are a little bit on the lazy side. We we we don't like complex things and and so we really strive to make all of our solutions relatively easy for so so for the brain to process. So so it wants it leans in towards them as opposed to um I'm too busy. I'm walking past that. Um and so names that are complicated are uh it's a liability and and we really avoid that. But forcel perfect uh fluency. Okay, let's go back actually to the three steps. So, we covered two. I went I took us on a long tangent to dive into a lot of the stuff you shared with the the second step which you call invent.

So, it's essentially the three steps are uh was it create which yeah it's identify identify and and I use the word invent with intention because it's more than creative, right? And then the final thing is implement. Uh now for us, we're not a design firm. uh we're really focused on brand names and and the nomenclature that supports the name. But so for us implement is helping the client team uh if they choose for us to help them with the presentations as it goes up the chain, right? uh a as it to help them sort of write a longer rationale for why this these names if they're presenting three names to the president of their company or or the CMO why these names make a lot of sense and and to help them we develop what we call prototypes. So we'll we'll put the name on a baseball cap on a t-shirt. We'll put the name in a mockup ad in the Wall Street Journal. something's very positive like because of you know um because of Proctor and Gamble's new blank product um PNG shares you know gained 10% this year so that executives can see the the lift that that name can have our implementation uh phase for them and we also do uh consumer research or customer research at that stage and we do that probably about 50% of the time um on our on our projects where We're going out and we're really talking to their customers and and putting the names in a series of drills.

Drills that make them not the marketing person for the day, but we're really we're really making these customers feel that this is a new brand and then we're asking about expectations, right? We're we're seeing how these names fire their imagination. And that's the most important thing in in research, not is the name popular, uh, are they comfortable with it, does it fit to concept. If if you're asking people is this fit to concept, you are inevitably always going to get a descriptive name. you make such a good point about how you need to arm the people working with you with uh ammo to win over other folks internally because if the person working with you is on board then and the name is bold and not an obvious winner. Uh I could see it being important to be like here's what you will should show them to help them see the story and the mockups and all that. Yes. And what's really important is to help their management see this in the context of the marketplace and their customers. This is a very human thing, but people want their boss to be happy, right? They they they want to be okay with their boss.

And so they're thinking about, I don't know if my boss would like this, you know, he's more conservative or she's more conservative. We try in a, you know, very diplomatic way to say this has nothing really in the end to do with your boss. It has to do with the marketplace. Well, you know, that's easy for me to say because I'm not working at a PNG or an Intel, right? But we really try to give that advice uh for because it is about being successful in the marketplace, right? And so we first off, we try to separate the clients that we work with. We we really want to work with clients that play to win, that that want to win, that not not just want to not not lose in in a marketplace. And so we try to encourage our direct clients to sort of lead the process to to really say, "Hey, I I if a if a manager or a CMO or president says, look, we're the team that's going to execute on this and we believe in this. uh we can make this where they usually rally around it, right? They they they usually do.

Um but if you're just taking names up to a manager uh and saying what do you think it's there's a different outcome often. So we like to be in that implementation phase because we have so much experience and and and usually credibility wi with with people. And you said that you come up with three to 4,000 names. That's the top of the funnel. Yeah. And and ju just to be, you know, clarify that it's it's ideas, directions. Uh it's it's not complete ready to ship names. Yeah. Not ready to ship names at all. Yeah. It's there's a this is a very inefficient process and and a little chaotic. So in that list of 3,000 names is probably potential diamonds that have to be sort of, you know, fractured and examined. I I really want to see just like a documentary of this process at some point. This is the closest we're going to get for now, but this is so interesting. I want to ask about how you would approach this if you're just a startup that doesn't have the time or resource to do this. But before I do that, is there anything else around the process that you guys go through with clients that you think is important to share or that you think might surprise people?

I think we've covered it. I do. Okay. Great. Awesome. Okay. So, most people listening to this are there's a lot of founders, a lot of PMs on product teams. They're working on a new feature. They're about to launch a product. They got accepted into YC and they're about to like launch a product. Then they have, I don't know, let's say they have a couple weeks. Got to come up with a name. What should they do? So, the first thing I do is to say, okay, let's forget about developing the name for right now. And I will have them, and I think this is a good exercise for anybody. We do it here internally when we think about our our business. So I say just because most of this now because of COVID is on video um and I'll say just draw a a shape of a diamond on a piece of paper in front of you and I said on the top of that diamond put the word win right you know how do you define winning is really I said now on that other next corner of the diamond what do you have to win write that down on the bottom what do you need to win and then on that final angle on the left hand side.

What do you have to say to win? Okay. Then I said, now let's go all the way to that final thing of what do you have to say to win? And that's where you just get people thinking about, well, you know what we really have here is and we're better than this and and I and then I'll just say, okay, now what you want to take that because this is really should be about experience and behavior. How do you want to behave in the marketplace? And how do you want the marketplace to behave towards you? And what kind of experience are you creating? Because and and then they'll start, you know, talking a little bit. I I'll say now you just need to probe on that. You need to keep going. You need to look at metaphors because this is about experience. Black. And I'll just give them some of our examples that we've talked about. We blackberry. It it it it says to the marketplace they're not like the other guys. I mean think of something like Google versus infosek, right? Google is an experience. Google says I don't know what these guys are going to do but it's not this practical mundane infosek, right?

And that's what attracts people. And so I'll do a little coaching like that and and then I that that usually kind of sets them free and they're now thinking about it not as a word which has maybe limited value but as creating experience which has the potential for unlimited value. Okay. So let me try to reflect this back for folks. So they so the advice is create draw a triangle. So you're coming up with a name draw triangle at the top win. Yes. at the bottom left. Was it how do you win? Yeah. What? What you So, so the diamond is, you know, diamond two triangle my mind. Okay. Got it. Diamond. Great. And so on that next angle there on the the right side is what do you have to win already, right? Because they they wouldn't be, you know, either in a Y combinator or getting some seed money if they didn't have something to win, right? And so and that's and and often people startups don't appreciate how much they actually do have to win because they're so busy and so stressed on on what they're doing. And then what what do they need to win?

And then finally, what do you need to say, right? and and and and then back up to you know defining what is winning to us which by the way uh if we you know we start with that question usually on a assignment that we've been awarded and if we're in a room with five people all five people have a different you know um definition of what their definition of that company winning and that's good to kind of sort that out because we can move down different different avenues from a creative standpoint. Okay, let's just make sure people have these phrases because this is awesome. And I imagine many people are going to be taking notes and like, cool, I'm gonna do this. I hope so. Say the four points of the diamond again just so folks can write it all down. At the top of the diamond is uh just the word win and underneath that is how do we define winning for us as a company, right? And and that that can start off being simple like, you know, we want to be the dominant player here, but you really have to work at that.

What does that really mean, right? The second uh on that right hand uh tip there of the diamond is what do we have to win? What are we doing now that makes us a winner? Then we go down to the final u the bottom of the diamond and it's what do we need to win? There could be technical things there people talk about talent and resources. Um often there they'll say you know we need a a good name. We always correct that it's not the good name it's the right name. And then finally is what do we need to say? And that's where I say that's where you want to spend some time in really thinking about all the things you need to say that you can say or you even like to say which maybe right now you can't say but you want a name that actually is going to have the flexibility as to when you can say that it still works. And that gets them into behavior and experience. And that usually launches a really good um a good discussion uh with founders uh in internally. And so in the cont when you say have to win the what you're thinking about there is what is it that you have that will help you win and then what is it you need to have in order to win and and all companies are in that same situation.

They they have a bunch of stuff but they need I mean you know a PNG might say well we need a you know a good distributor. Okay. All right. Well, that's that put that on the list, right? Then you might say, well, we need an when it gets to what do we have to say? We have to say the right things so that a distributor is interested in us. And then that that then you go down sort of an avenue there. Well, what what is that, right? And it it all it should if you work at it, it's not this is not a a one-hour exercise. It it may be an you know, exercise repeated over the next four or five days. Okay. Okay. So, you have this diamond and then the idea is just sit and put names down in a Google doc, let's say. Yeah. And then you start but but uh there is this in and maybe it's naive. I I guess that's probably the best word for this is that because I do hear this all the time. Hey, we you know, we we've worked at this. we got a list of uh 200 names and you know they but they don't we we don't think there's something there and I'll say well 200 names is not enough right get get to a thousand500 names and directions don't evaluate them just just generate names and directions and ideas and then have a meeting and don't evaluate but speculate you know what could we do with this name what's the potential here?

Uh the the there's a lot of over evaluation in uh our industry, right? Um it it's makes sense. It's you know, we survive as humans because we figure out what's wrong with uh this picture, right? Uh if if I want to cross the street, is it safe to cross the street? What's going on? Those kinds of things. You have to counter that. you have to say, let let's just suspend judgment for a while and and let's let's do an exercise here where we take these 10 names that we think might work and what are we going to do with it? Because it's how you execute. Um, you know, going back to wind surf, if as we showed them pictures of people wind surfing and waves and things, if they said, "Ah, you know, that just doesn't work for us at all. I'm very uncomfortable with Well, then it's not their name, right? uh uh but they leaned into it. Okay, I can see this. It's e, you know, easy for us to execute. It's dynamic. It's different. So, so that's why we build these prototypes for people. And that's what I think the best advice I can give to a whether it's a startup or someone starting a new cookie company is it's not just a list of 200 names.

It's uh you know 10 or 15 lists of 200 names and it's thinking about what do we have to say here? What behavior? How do we want people to feel in the marketplace about us? I imagine with Google people felt relief that it wasn't a descriptive name that you know that there was something new out there in the marketplace. Yeah. Info seek that's such a descriptive name now that I think about it. Yes. Okay. So one more question along these lines. And so say you have a list of let's say 2,000 or a thousand names. There's this tension between choosing something like as a person that is doing them themselves. Your advice is choose something bold, not something descriptive. You won't know it when you see it. Very hard to do obviously when you're doing it by yourself. any just advice for not, you know, not losing sight of that piece and just throwing out things that feel too scary, finding a name that's actually bold as you suggest. First off, we we this is pure human psychology. We really humans only pay attention to what is new or what is different, I should say, right?

Uh um so if if you're looking at shoes and they're all black black and then the next pair of shoes is red, that's the first thing you focus on. And so that usually gives people permission. You know, they'll say, "Okay, I I get that." So So look for what is really different between the names that you have on your list, but also what's different from what's out in the marketplace, right? uh well you know then you get a client like Microsoft saying well Azure is different u there's going to be a lot of cloud stuff and it there's a relevant point there Azure is blue and so there's a slight logical connection that I think gave them more permission to move forward with it frankly but it it listen this this is not an easy task I mean that's that's why we're in this business and and why I felt we should be specialized because if you start doing design and or advertising or uh you know other things you you you can't have the the intellectual engine you can't acquire the intellectual engine that that we have. So, I know it's difficult, but it can be done and you just have to give yourself some time.

But stop evaluating, suspend judgment, and speculate. That that's that's my number one advice to to people trying to do this on their own. Now, how can you get help? You can you can talk to your employees, but it's not so much what do you think of this name? It's what do you think this name could do for us? That's a much better question, right? If you go out and talk to friends who don't work for your company, um there's a there's a fun drill that I suggest. I said, "Listen, go out to them and say, they'll know what you're doing and say, you know what, we just have a new competitor and their name is blank. What do you think about that?" What happens there is you're not asking them to give you an opinion of to evaluate a name. You're asking them then what does that name do for you? The information you're getting is that that name they're telling you what that name does for them. What how it helps them to imagine which is a fundamental role of of any name. Slight tangent but I'm going to go to our kind of research.

Um we do mostly quantitative research now but for years we did uh qualitative work and we still do uh but what we found in we were always looking for I'll say it this way we were always looking for this answer from consumers. If a consumer said well I don't really know much about that new product but I know that they're not like the other guys. That's when we knew we had a good name. Uh be because they were now what what happened there. I mean the technical term that we use is we've that name will create a predisposition to consider this product because they're not like the other guys as opposed to I already have something like that. I don't I don't I'm busy. I don't need another one of those things. I need something new and different and hopefully better. That's awesome. That's a good reminder. There's a quote that I found of yours that's exactly along these lines. If your team is comfortable with the name, chances are you don't have the name yet. Yes. Yeah. And we and by the way, the opposite of that is we look for polarization. Uh we we we look for tension in a team about arguing about these things.

Um because we think that polarization is a sign of strength in the word. And interesting story, the person who taught me that honestly was Andy Grove over the Pentium name because and I learned a lot from him. I always say this. I I you know I I just was very fortunate um to to work with him on on Pentium and Seeon and a few other things. But when we when we went to you know an executive committee to present Pentium and by the way internally one of the names that and makes sense here descriptive bunch of engineers prochip hey it's professional it's premium uh and it's chipped so it should be prochip right okay so um Andy had me give a presentation about the strengths of this thing and he said he said now let me tell you why I think this is the right name he said because I see the polarization here in amongst people there's this you know prochip over here there's the Pentium thing he said that tells me there's energy for Pentium here and he said that's why I think we should go with it and I've never forgotten that and and so we do look for that u and when we tell that story people say you know you're right there is I mean we are arguing about this and there is an intensity with the name and and that's what you want.

You don't want to go out into the marketplace, this very competitive marketplace regardless of the category with something that doesn't have a level of boldness or intensity. That was an amazing story. Uh just again, so kind of a a tip here is if half your team or I don't know some percentage of your team hates it, some percentage of your team loves it, that's a good sign. Yeah, it is. It is. Look for that polarization. That's what we look for. I also love this tip of asking people if hey our competitor just launched they're called Windsurf how your team reacts if they're just like oh wow that's a great name I'm I'm interested in that product that's that's what you want to look for yes exactly yeah how important is the com for the name you come up with I imagine it's really hard to get these days just what do you think about domain name when you think about naming I am so glad you asked this question because it is at this point it doesn't really matter at all the the the com or URL address has become an area code and whether you're in 415 or 615 it doesn't really matter to people and now with AI you know search that you know SEO is going to be less important right and and so I I just think the principle in play here is you got to get the right name first and then if you can get the dot sure go ahead but if you can't there's ways around that.

You you know you can put a a prefix in front of it or a little word in front of it or after it or you go to aai or some something like that. But the the principle in play is let's get the right name first for those who really and there are people who really get hung up on the dot uh and and they tend to be sort of oer by the way uh and have in their mind sort of the hotness of the internet and having a.com which did did make a difference 25 years ago but it's 25 years now or 30 right? Um, the good news is because they're less valuable, you can typically buy a URL if you negotiate the right way and have time for 15, 20, 25, $30,000. And, you know, we say, hey, if you can do that, have fun. I'd put the $30,000 into marketing. Awesome. That's reassuring. I imagine many founders are just like, god damn it, there's no names available anymore. Let me zoom out and just ask you this question as a maybe a closing thought to our conversation. Say you were just in an elevator ride with someone and I'm sure this happens to you of just like, "Hey, David, I got to come up with a name.

What what's your biggest tip for coming up with a great name? What would your answer be?" I'd go back to think about forget about the word, think about behavior and experience. And then the second thing from just a a a creative help. Um I'm a big believer in synchronicity. Uh and we try to sort of force synchronicity here and I'll give you a couple examples of that. But there's this idea of connecting sort of dots, you know, two unrelated ideas together. And so I'll say, look, if someone says, well, you know, we're um we we make uh we make sailboats and I'm trying to I'm here in Salelo. I guess that's why I thought about that. But uh and I I'm trying to create a new a new name for my company that builds sailboats. I would say forget about sailboats. I would go and pick out some magazines about hunting uh or fly flight flying magazines and I would just look through those, get a notepad out and and put out words that you like, things expressions that you like. So you're you're and then that synchronicity I said I I would bet you $ five dollar that out of those two magazines you will get a word that you never would have thought of but somehow it would relate to sailing.

That's that connects very much to your story of how you have these different teams and the teams that end up coming up with the winning name are the ones thinking about a very different version of that product. Yes. So interesting. Okay, David, this was everything I was hoping it'd be. I feel like we're going to help so many people. Is there anything that we haven't covered or that you want to leave listeners with as a final nugget or piece of advice or story before we get to our very exciting lightning round? I I'm going to emphasize one point, I think, which is that I I I really would like the the listeners to really begin to think about how how valuable a brand name can be. That it's you're not just looking for a word, you're looking for this experience, right? And and if you get it right, not just a good name, but the right name, the value is almost unlimited, right? And so, give yourself some time, give yourself a budget, uh give yourself the right resources to do that. Second thing is, you know, we try to really be helpful here. And so I am always uh happy to talk to people um about where they are in a process and if we can help or just give them a little bit of advice.

Um and we we schedule, you know, we call them office hours here. Um we're judicious about it, but we we are open to that. Um it's just playing a longterm game. So I I'd like to leave that with viewers. Also, we're about to book out your office hours. I love that offer. I think a lot of people are going to take advantage of that. That is super cool. David, with that, we've reached our very exciting lightning round. I've got five questions for you. Are you ready? Yes, I'm ready. Here we go. What are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people? There's a book called Resilience which was written by a a a former Navy Seal that um and it's not about combat and it's just a tiny bit about being a SEAL but it is about overcoming things right and it's about tenacity and I think you know everybody in the world we all have challenges and things and I and I do recommend that um to people. Second book is uh Andrew Roberts latest book on Winston Churchill. Winston Churchill is really one of my heroes. Uh he was one of the most unusual provocative statesman uh politicians of the 20th century.

And here's another person that talk about tenacity and ups and downs and stick with it. And so I I do I do like to recommend that some people just kind of you know tip their head and said I don't know it it seems like maybe a boring book. But but those are two books that I I Who would ever say that Churchill's story is boring? That's absurd. I think so. I I agree. I agree. It's absurd. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. He's so fascinating. Uh there's a recent documentary I think that uh really showed me the Yes. the character. Yeah. Yeah. Incredible. Okay. What's a recent movie or TV show you've really enjoyed? For me is the Yellowstone series. Um we we have we're very fortunate as a family. We have some property in Montana and you're living the life. I'm Yeah. Very Listen, very I can't tell you how fortunate I am. and and uh and I bought this property uh 28 years ago, so it was a lot cheaper then in a snowstorm and it just felt right. But uh I think particularly the 1883 that the the precursor to your I was going to ask if you saw that because that was incredible.

Yes. And then the after one 1923 which is the postwart 1883 really gives people a sense of what it took by those early Americans to to to build a life in a place like a beautiful place but a hard tough place like Montana. So it and it just it's just phenomenal. Um the person you know producing and writing those things is incredibly talented. Taylor Sheridan I think is his name. Yeah. I love that like in the story like Montana was the easy route almost from the the journey they went on. That's right. It's very true. Yeah. Oh man. Yeah. Like you almost don't even need to watch Yellowstone Yellowstone just starting with 1883 is how it works. In fact, I recommend people I say there's three, but if you really want the the the truth about the American West, it's it's 1883. Yeah. I've uh suggested that on this podcast a bunch actually. So I love that that's where you went. Next question. Do you have a favorite product that you have recently discovered that you really love? Maybe one you named, maybe not. Well, I didn't name it, although it's got a very good name to it.

Uh, we are a whole family. I have two daughters and and my wife. We're all fly fisherman and uh last summer. Um, I really b I I bought this for myself, but I gave it to my wife, but it was one of those things was a present for her, but I knew I was going to use it more. And it's a it's a Hardy. It's an old British fly rod, but it's a beautiful rod. It's just perfect for the big rivers of of Montana. So, that's my my favorite purchase. That's the first fly fishing rod of the podcast. Excellent choice. Next question. Do you have a favorite life motto that you often find yourself coming back to sharing with friends or family? I do. I do. And I it's it's a little longer. So, so I wrote it I I have it written here somewhere, but it's um it's the the quote from um Te Lawrence, Lawrence of Arabia Arabia here. And if I can find it, I should should be Yeah. Uh I think it's a wonderful quote. So, I think hopefully your viewers will like this. Here's what he said. He said, uh, "All men dream, but not equally.

Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds wake in the day to find that it was vanity. But the dreamers of the day are dangerous men. For they may not on their for for they may act on their dreams with open eyes to make them possible. I I just I read that years ago and it just it it uh it hit me pretty hard. So So yeah, that is an amazing quote. It makes me think about the the quote about the the man in the arena. Yes. Yeah. It's the same it's same idea just a little different. Yeah. Yeah. And I also think Lawrence of Arabia is a fascinating per person uh to to to what what he did. So inspiring in some ways. Yeah. An amazing movie. Okay. Final question. Uh let me just try this. Is there a name that you didn't name that you just like, wow, that was an amazing name. I wish I had come up with that name. I I'll tell you there is one name. Um and it's DreamWorks. Um, I I think it's a wonderful name and it's somewhat of a somewhat ironic that the entertainment industry in general has pretty mundane names, right?

So, so you have all these talented people and yet when you look at the the names of production studios, movie houses, um, you know, Comcast, uh, you know, things like that, it's just it's very mundane. Here's DreamWorks. Just like Sonus, check all the boxes. Compound Dream. I you know, you you expect something great from DreamWorks. They've created an experience. The experience of dreaming in a movie. I think it's a wonderful name. I wish I'd done it. That's such a cool answer. David, thank you so much for doing this. This is incredible. I learned a ton as I imagined. I feel like a lot of people are going to have a much easier time thinking about approaching this topic. Well, well, I certainly hope so. I do. It's been very very enjoyable. Uh uh very thoughtful. Um and uh I have nothing but respect for the way you you do this. Uh and the talent that you have. So uh very fortunate um uh to that we've come together and we we live in the same place. So So maybe we can get together for a cup of coffee or something. Northern California for the win.

Uh thank you so much for being here. You're very welcome. Bye everyone. Take care. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
