---
title: "Inside ChatGPT: The fastest growing product in history  | Nick Turley (OpenAI)"
date: "2025-08-09"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Nick Turley"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Nick Turley is Head of ChatGPT, the fastest-growing product in history, with 700 million weekly active users (10% of the world’s population). He was part of the original hackathon team that shipped Ch"
word_count: 8609
youtube_id: "ixY2PvQJ0To"
---

You were a product leader at Dropbox,&nbsp; then Instacart. Now, you're the PM of&nbsp;&nbsp; the most consequential product in history. I didn't know what I would do here because it&nbsp;&nbsp; was a research lab. My first task was I&nbsp; fix the blinds, or something like that. &nbsp; When someone offers you a rocket&nbsp; ship, don't ask which seat. We set out to build a super assistant. It&nbsp; was supposed to be a hackathon code base. What was it called before? It was going to be Chat with&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-3.5 because we really didn't think it&nbsp; was going to be a successful product. And then Sam Altman is just like, "Hey,&nbsp;&nbsp; let me tweet about it." This is a pattern with AI,&nbsp;&nbsp; you won't know what to polish until after&nbsp; you ship. My dream is that we ship daily. By the time people hear this, they're&nbsp; going to have their hands on GPT-5. About 10% of the world population uses every&nbsp; week. With scale comes responsibility. It just&nbsp;&nbsp; feels a little bit more alive, a bit&nbsp; more human. This model has taste. Kevin Weil, your CPO, said to ask you about this&nbsp; principle of, "Is it maximally accelerated?" I just really want to jump to the punchline,&nbsp; "Why can't we do this now?" I always felt&nbsp;&nbsp; like part of my role here is to just set&nbsp; the pace and the resting heartbeat.

Everyone is always wondering, "Is Chat&nbsp; the future of all of this stuff?" Chat was the simplest way to ship at that time.&nbsp; I'm baffled by how much it took off, even more&nbsp;&nbsp; baffled by how many people have copied. ChatGPT is now driving more traffic&nbsp;&nbsp; to my newsletter than Twitter. That is the type of capability that&nbsp;&nbsp; has been incredibly retentive. I've been really&nbsp; excited about what we've been doing in search. Can you give us a peek into&nbsp; where this goes long-term? ChatGPT feels a little bit like&nbsp; MS-DOS. We haven't built Windows yet,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it will be obvious once we do. Today, my guest is Nick Turley. Nick&nbsp;&nbsp; is Head of ChatGPT at OpenAI. He&nbsp; joined the company three years ago,&nbsp;&nbsp; when it was still primarily a research lab. He&nbsp; helped come up with the idea of ChatGPT and took&nbsp;&nbsp; it from 0 to over 700 million weekly active&nbsp; users, billions in revenue, and arguably the&nbsp;&nbsp; most successful and impactful consumer software&nbsp; product in human history. Nick is incredible. He's&nbsp;&nbsp; been very much under the radar. This is the first&nbsp; major podcast interview that he has ever done,&nbsp;&nbsp; and you are in for a treat. We talk about all&nbsp; the things, including the just launched GPT-5.

A huge thank you to Kevin Weil, Claire Vo,&nbsp; George O'Brien, Joanne Jang, and Peter Deng&nbsp;&nbsp; for suggesting topics for this conversation. If&nbsp; you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe&nbsp;&nbsp; and follow it in your favorite podcasting app, or&nbsp; YouTube. And if you become an annual subscriber of&nbsp;&nbsp; my newsletter, you get a year free of a bunch&nbsp; of incredible products, including Lovable,&nbsp;&nbsp; Replit, Bolt, n8n, Linear, Superhuman, Descript,&nbsp; Wispr Flow, Gamma, Perplexity, Warp, Granola,&nbsp;&nbsp; Magic Patterns, Raycast, ChatPRD, and Mobbin.&nbsp; Check it out lennysnewsletter.com and click,&nbsp;&nbsp; "bundle". With that, I bring you Nick Turley. This episode is brought to you by Orkes,&nbsp;&nbsp; the company behind open source Conductor, the&nbsp; orchestration platform powering modern enterprise&nbsp;&nbsp; apps and agentic workflows. Legacy automation&nbsp; tools can't keep pace. Siloed, low-code platforms,&nbsp;&nbsp; outdated process management, and disconnected&nbsp; API tooling falls short in today's event-driven,&nbsp;&nbsp; AI-powered agentic landscape. Orkes changes&nbsp; this. With Orkes Conductor, you gain an&nbsp;&nbsp; agentic orchestration layer that seamlessly&nbsp; connects humans, AI agents, APIs, microservices,&nbsp;&nbsp; and data pipelines in real time at enterprise&nbsp; scale, visual and code-first development,&nbsp;&nbsp; built-in compliance, observability, and rock-solid&nbsp; reliability, ensure workflows evolve dynamically&nbsp;&nbsp; with your needs. It's not just about automating&nbsp; tasks, it's orchestrating autonomous agents and&nbsp;&nbsp; complex workflows to deliver smarter outcomes&nbsp; faster.

Whether modernizing legacy systems or&nbsp;&nbsp; scaling next-gen, AI-driven apps, Orkes&nbsp; accelerates your journey from idea to&nbsp;&nbsp; production. Learn more and start building&nbsp; at orkes.io/lenny, that's orkes.io/lenny. This episode is brought to you by Vanta, and&nbsp; I am very excited to have Christina Cacioppo,&nbsp;&nbsp; CEO and co-founder of Vanta, joining&nbsp; me for this very short conversation. Great to be here. Big fan of the&nbsp; podcast and the newsletter. Vanta is a longtime sponsor of the show,&nbsp; but for some of our newer listeners,&nbsp;&nbsp; what does Vanta do and who is it for? Sure. So we started Vanta in 2018,&nbsp;&nbsp; focused on founders, helping them start to build&nbsp; out their security programs and get credit for&nbsp;&nbsp; all of that hard security work with compliance&nbsp; certifications, like SOC 2 or ISO 27001. Today,&nbsp;&nbsp; we currently help over 9,000 companies, including&nbsp; some startup household names, like Atlassian,&nbsp;&nbsp; Ramp, and LangChain, start and scale their&nbsp; security programs, and ultimately build&nbsp;&nbsp; trust by automating compliance, centralizing&nbsp; GRC, and accelerating security reviews. That is awesome. I know from experience that these&nbsp; things take a lot of time and a lot of resources,&nbsp;&nbsp; and nobody wants to spend time doing this. That is very much our experience, but before&nbsp;&nbsp; the company, and some extent, during it,&nbsp; but the idea is, with automation, with AI,&nbsp;&nbsp; with software, we are helping customers&nbsp; build trust with prospects and customers&nbsp;&nbsp; in an efficient way.

And our joke, we started&nbsp; this compliance company so you don't have to. We appreciate you for doing that, and you have&nbsp; a special discount for listeners. They can get&nbsp;&nbsp; $1,000 off Vanta at vanta.com/lenny, that's&nbsp; vanta.com/lenny for $1,000 off Vanta. Thanks&nbsp;&nbsp; for that, Christina. Thank you! Nick, thank you so much for joining&nbsp; me, and welcome to the podcast. Thanks for having me, Lenny. I already had a billion questions I wanted&nbsp;&nbsp; to ask you, and then you guys decided to launch&nbsp; GPT-5 the week that we're recording this. So, now,&nbsp;&nbsp; I have at least 2 billion questions for you.&nbsp; I hope you have a lot of time. First of all,&nbsp;&nbsp; just congrats on the launch. It's coming tomorrow,&nbsp; the day after recording this. Just congrats.&nbsp;&nbsp; How are you feeling? I imagine this is an ungodly&nbsp; amount of work and stress. How are you doing? It's a busy week, but we've been&nbsp; working on this for a while,&nbsp;&nbsp; so it also feels really good to get it out. So, by the time people hear this, they're going&nbsp;&nbsp; to have their hands on GPT-5, the newest&nbsp; ChatGPT. What's the simplest way to just&nbsp;&nbsp; understand what this is, what it unlocks, what&nbsp; people can do with it?

Give us the pitch. I'm so excited about GPT-5. I think for most&nbsp; people, it's going to feel like a real step&nbsp;&nbsp; change. If you're the average ChatGPT user, and&nbsp; we have 700 million of them this week, you've&nbsp;&nbsp; probably been on GPT-4o for a while. You probably&nbsp; don't even think about the model that powers the&nbsp;&nbsp; product. And GPT-5, it just feels categorically&nbsp; different. I'll talk about a lot of the specifics,&nbsp;&nbsp; but at the end of the day, the vibes are good,&nbsp; at least we feel that way. We hope that users&nbsp;&nbsp; feel the same. And increasingly, that is the thing&nbsp; that I think most people notice, right? They don't&nbsp;&nbsp; look at the academic benchmarks. They don't look&nbsp; at evaluations. They try the model and see what&nbsp;&nbsp; it feels like. And just on that dimension alone,&nbsp; I'm so excited. I've been using it for a while,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it is also the smartest, most useful, and&nbsp; fastest frontier model that we've ever launched. On pure SMARTs, one way to look at that is&nbsp; academic benchmarks on many of the standard ones,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether or not it's math, or reasoning, or just&nbsp; raw intelligence. This model is state of the art.&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm especially excited about its performance&nbsp; on coding, whether or not that's SWE-bench,&nbsp;&nbsp; which is a common benchmark, or actually front-end&nbsp; coding is really, really good as well, and that's&nbsp;&nbsp; an area where I feel like there's the true step&nbsp; change improvement in GPT-5.

But really, no matter&nbsp;&nbsp; how you measure the SMARTs, it's quite remarkable,&nbsp; and I think people are going to feel the upgrade,&nbsp;&nbsp; especially if they weren't using o3 already. And the second thing beyond SMARTs is it's just&nbsp;&nbsp; really useful. Coding is one axis of utility,&nbsp; whether or not you have coding questions or&nbsp;&nbsp; you're vibe coding an app, but it's also a&nbsp; really good writer. I write for a living,&nbsp;&nbsp; internally, externally. I just wrote a big blog&nbsp; post that we published Monday, and this thing&nbsp;&nbsp; is such an incredible editor. And compared to some&nbsp; of the older models, it's got taste, which I think&nbsp;&nbsp; is really exciting. And to me, that's something&nbsp; that is truly useful in my day-to-day. And there's&nbsp;&nbsp; a bunch of other areas, like it's state of the&nbsp; art on health, which is useful when you need it,&nbsp;&nbsp; but again, the thing you can't really express&nbsp; in use cases or data is the vibe of the model.&nbsp;&nbsp; And it just feels a little bit more alive, a bit&nbsp; more human in a way that is hard to articulate&nbsp;&nbsp; until you try it. So, feel good about that. And yeah, as mentioned, it's faster. It thinks,&nbsp;&nbsp; too, just like o3 did, but you don't have&nbsp; to manually tell it to do that.

It'll just&nbsp;&nbsp; dynamically decide to think when it needs to. And&nbsp; when it doesn't need to think, it just responds&nbsp;&nbsp; instantly, and that ends up feeling quite a bit&nbsp; faster than using o3 did. And then maybe the&nbsp;&nbsp; thing that's most exciting is that we're making it&nbsp; available for free, and that's one of those things&nbsp;&nbsp; that I feel like we can uniquely do at OpenAI.&nbsp; Because many companies, I think, if they have a&nbsp;&nbsp; subscription model like us, they would gate it&nbsp; behind their paid plan. And for us, if we can&nbsp;&nbsp; scale it, we will, and that just feels awesome.&nbsp; We did that with 4o as well. So, everyone is going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be able to try GPT-5 tomorrow, hopefully. How long does something like this take? I don't&nbsp;&nbsp; know if there's a simple answer to this, but just&nbsp; how long have you guys been working on GPT-5? We've been working on it for a while. You&nbsp; can view GPT-5 as a culmination of a bunch of&nbsp;&nbsp; different efforts. We had a reasoning tech, we had&nbsp; a more classic post-screening methodologies, and&nbsp;&nbsp; therefore, it's really hard to put a beginning on&nbsp; it, but it really is the end point of a bunch of&nbsp;&nbsp; different techniques that we began for a while.

Can you give us a peek into the vision for where&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT is going, GPT in general is going?&nbsp; If you look at on the surface, it's been the&nbsp;&nbsp; same idea with a much smarter brain for a long&nbsp; time. I'm curious where this goes long-term. So, to maybe back up a bit, now, you&nbsp; think of ChatGPT as, "Is this going&nbsp;&nbsp; to be ubiquitous product?" Again, about 10%&nbsp; of the world population uses every week. Holy shit. I think we have 5 million business customers now.&nbsp;&nbsp; It's an established category in its own right.&nbsp; But really, when we started, we set out to build&nbsp;&nbsp; a super assistant, that's how we talked about&nbsp; it at the time. In fact, the code base that we&nbsp;&nbsp; use is called SA Server. It was supposed to be&nbsp; a hackathon code base, but things always turn&nbsp;&nbsp; out a little bit differently. So, yeah, in some&nbsp; ways, that is still the vision. The reason I don't&nbsp;&nbsp; talk about it more than I do is because I think&nbsp; assistant is a bit limiting in terms of the mental&nbsp;&nbsp; model we're trying to create. You think of this&nbsp; very personified human thing, maybe utilitarian,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe a... And frankly, having an assistant is&nbsp; not particularly relatable to most people, unless&nbsp;&nbsp; they're in Silicon Valley and they're a manager,&nbsp; or something like that.

So it's imperfect. But really, what we envision is this entity that&nbsp; can help you with any task, whether or not that's&nbsp;&nbsp; at home, or at work, or at school, really any&nbsp; context, and it's an entity that knows what you're&nbsp;&nbsp; trying to achieve. So, unlike ChatGPT today, you&nbsp; don't have to describe your problem in menu to&nbsp;&nbsp; detail because it already stands your overarching&nbsp; goals and has context on your life, et cetera. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; that's one thing that we're really excited about.&nbsp; The inverse of giving it more inputs on your life&nbsp;&nbsp; is giving it more action space. So, we're really&nbsp; excited to allow it to do, over time, what a&nbsp;&nbsp; smart, empathetic human with a computer could&nbsp; do for you. And I think the limit of the types&nbsp;&nbsp; of problems that you can solve for people, once&nbsp; you give it access to tools like that, is very,&nbsp;&nbsp; very different than what you might be able to&nbsp; do in a chatbot today. So, that's more outputs. And I often think, "Okay, I'm a general&nbsp; intelligence. What happened if I became&nbsp;&nbsp; Lenny's intern, or something?" And I wouldn't&nbsp; be particularly effective despite having both&nbsp;&nbsp; of those attributes that I just mentioned, and&nbsp; it's because I think this idea of building a&nbsp;&nbsp; relationship with this technology is also&nbsp; incredibly important.

So, that's maybe the&nbsp;&nbsp; third piece that I'm excited about is building&nbsp; a product that can truly get to know you over&nbsp;&nbsp; time. And you saw us launch some of those things&nbsp; with improved memory earlier this year, and that's&nbsp;&nbsp; just the beginning of what we're hoping to do so&nbsp; that it really feels like this is your AI. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I don't know if supersystem is still the right&nbsp; exact analogy, but I think people just think&nbsp;&nbsp; of it as their AI. And I think we can put one&nbsp; in everyone's pocket and help them solve real&nbsp;&nbsp; problems, whether or not that's becoming healthy,&nbsp; whether or not that's starting a business,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether or not that's just having a second&nbsp; opinion on anything. There's so many different&nbsp;&nbsp; problems that you can help with people in their&nbsp; daily life, and that's what motivates me. So an interesting between the lines that&nbsp; I'm reading here is the vision is for it&nbsp;&nbsp; to be an assistant for people not to replace&nbsp; people. It feels like a really important piece&nbsp;&nbsp; of the puzzle. Maybe just talk about that. AI is really scary to people, and I understand&nbsp;&nbsp; there's decades of movies on AI that have a&nbsp; certain mental model baked in.

And even if&nbsp;&nbsp; you just look at the technology today, everyone, I&nbsp; think, has this moment where the AI does something&nbsp;&nbsp; that was really deeply personal to them and you're&nbsp; thought, "Hey, AI can never do that." For me,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was weird music theory things where I was like,&nbsp; "Wow, this thing actually understands music better&nbsp;&nbsp; than I do," and that's something I'm passionate&nbsp; about. And so it's naturally scary. And I think&nbsp;&nbsp; the thing that's been really important to us for&nbsp; a long time is to build something that feels like&nbsp;&nbsp; it's helpful to you, but you're in the driver's&nbsp; seat, and that's even more important as the&nbsp;&nbsp; stuff becomes agentic, the feeling of being&nbsp; in control, and that can be small things. We built this way of watching what the AI is doing&nbsp; when it's in agent mode. And it's not that you&nbsp;&nbsp; actually are going to watch it the whole time,&nbsp; but it gives you a mental model and makes you&nbsp;&nbsp; feel in control in the same way that, when you're&nbsp; in a Waymo, you get that screen, for those of you&nbsp;&nbsp; who've tried Waymo. You can see the other cars.&nbsp; It's not like you're going to actually watch,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it gives you the sense that you know&nbsp; how this thing works and what's happening,&nbsp;&nbsp; or we always check with you to confirm&nbsp; things.

It's a little bit annoying,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it puts you in the driver's seat, which is&nbsp; important. And for that reason, we always view&nbsp;&nbsp; technology and the technology that we build as&nbsp; something that amplifies what you're capable of,&nbsp;&nbsp; rather than replacing it, and that becomes&nbsp; important as the deck gets more powerful. Okay. So you mentioned the beginnings of ChatGPT.&nbsp; I was reading in a different interview. So you&nbsp;&nbsp; joined OpenAI. ChatGPT was just this internal&nbsp; experimental project that was basically a way&nbsp;&nbsp; to test GPT-3.5, and then Sam Altman is&nbsp; just like, "Hey, let me tweet about it,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe see if people find this interesting," yada&nbsp; yada, yada. It's the most successful consumer&nbsp;&nbsp; product in history, I think both in growth rate&nbsp; in users and revenue, and just absurd. Can you&nbsp;&nbsp; give us a glimpse into that early period before&nbsp; it became something everyone is obsessed with? Yeah. So we had decided that we wanted to do&nbsp; something consumer-facing, I think, right around&nbsp;&nbsp; the time that GPT-4 finished training, and it&nbsp; was actually mainly for a couple of reasons.&nbsp;&nbsp; We already had a product out there, which was our&nbsp; developer product. That's actually what I came in&nbsp;&nbsp; to help with initially, and that has been amazing&nbsp; for the mission.

In fact, it's grown up. And now,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's the OpenAI platform with, I don't know, 4&nbsp; million developers, I think. But at that time,&nbsp;&nbsp; it was early stage, and we were running&nbsp; into some constraints with it because&nbsp;&nbsp; there was two problems. One, you couldn't iterate&nbsp; very quickly because, every time you would change&nbsp;&nbsp; the model, you'd break everyone's app.&nbsp; So, it was really hard to try things. And then the other thing was that it was really&nbsp; hard to learn because the feedback we would&nbsp;&nbsp; get was the feedback from the end user to the&nbsp; developer to us. So it was very disintermediated,&nbsp;&nbsp; and we were excited to make fast progress towards&nbsp; AGI and it just felt like we needed a more direct&nbsp;&nbsp; relationship with consumers. So we were trying to&nbsp; figure out where to start. And in classic OpenAI&nbsp;&nbsp; fashion, especially back then, we put together&nbsp; a hackathon of enthusiasts of just hacking on&nbsp;&nbsp; GPT-4 to see what awesome stuff we could create&nbsp; and maybe ship to users, and everyone's idea was&nbsp;&nbsp; some flavor of a super assistant. They were more&nbsp; specific ideas, like we had a meeting bot that&nbsp;&nbsp; would call into meetings, and the vision was maybe&nbsp; it would help you run the meeting over time.

We&nbsp;&nbsp; had a coding tool, which full circle now, probably&nbsp; ahead of its time. And the challenge was that we&nbsp;&nbsp; tested those things, but every time we tested&nbsp; these more bespoke ideas, people wanted to use&nbsp;&nbsp; it for all this other stuff because it's just&nbsp; a very, very generically powerful technology. So, after a couple of months of prototyping,&nbsp; we took that same crew of volunteers,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it was truly a volunteer group, right? We&nbsp; had someone from the supercomputing team who&nbsp;&nbsp; had built an iOS app before. We had someone on the&nbsp; research team who had written some backend code in&nbsp;&nbsp; their life. They were all part of this initial&nbsp; ChatGPT team, and we decided to ship something&nbsp;&nbsp; open-ended because we just wanted a real use case&nbsp; distribution. And this is a pattern with AI, I&nbsp;&nbsp; think, where you really have to ship to understand&nbsp; what is even possible and what people want,&nbsp;&nbsp; rather than being able to reason about that a&nbsp; priori. So, ChatGPT came together at the end&nbsp;&nbsp; because we just wanted the learnings as soon&nbsp; as we could, and we shipped it right before&nbsp;&nbsp; the holiday thinking we would come back and get&nbsp; the data and then wind it down.

And obviously,&nbsp;&nbsp; that part turned out super differently because&nbsp; people really liked the product as is. So I remember going through the motions of&nbsp; like, "Oh, man, dashboard is broken. Oh, wait,&nbsp;&nbsp; people are liking it. I'm sure it's just going&nbsp; viral and stuff is going to die down," to like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Oh, wow, people are retaining, but I&nbsp; don't understand why." And then eventually,&nbsp;&nbsp; we fell into product development mode,&nbsp; but it was a little bit by accident. Wow. I did not know that ChatGPT emerged&nbsp; out of a hackathon project. Definitely&nbsp;&nbsp; the most successful hackathon project. I like to tell this story when we do our&nbsp;&nbsp; hackathons because I really do want people&nbsp; to feel like they can ship their idea,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it's certainly been true in the past,&nbsp; and we'll continue to make it true. If you don't want to share these things,&nbsp; but I wonder who that team was. The team is largely still around. Some of&nbsp; the researchers working on GPT-5, actually,&nbsp;&nbsp; were always part of the ChatGPT team. Engineers&nbsp; are still around. Designers are still around. I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; still here, I guess. So, yeah, you've got the team&nbsp; still running things, but obviously, we've grown&nbsp;&nbsp; up tremendously, and we've had to because with&nbsp; scale comes responsibility.

And we're going to hit&nbsp;&nbsp; a billion users soon and you have to begin acting&nbsp; in a way that is appropriate to that scale. Okay. So let me spend a little time there. So,&nbsp; I don't know if this is 100% true, but I believe&nbsp;&nbsp; it is that ChatGPT is the fastest growing, most&nbsp; successful consumer product in history. Also,&nbsp;&nbsp; the most impactful on people's lives. It feels&nbsp; like it's just part of the ether of society now.&nbsp;&nbsp; It's just my wife talks to it. Every question&nbsp; I have, I go to it, voice mode. My wife is just&nbsp;&nbsp; like, "Let me check with ChatGPT." It's just such&nbsp; a part of our life now, and I think it's still&nbsp;&nbsp; early. So many people don't even know what the&nbsp; hell is going on. Just as someone leading this,&nbsp;&nbsp; do you ever just take a moment to reflect&nbsp; and think about just like, "Holy shit"? I have to. It's quite humbling to get to run a&nbsp; product like that, and I have to pinch myself very&nbsp;&nbsp; frequently, and I also have to sometimes sit back&nbsp; and just think, which is really hard when things&nbsp;&nbsp; are moving so quickly. I love setting a fast&nbsp; pace at the company, but in order to do that with&nbsp;&nbsp; confidence, I need at least one day every week&nbsp; that I'm entirely unplugged and I'm just thinking&nbsp;&nbsp; about what to do and process the week, et cetera.

And the other thing is I've never ever worked on&nbsp;&nbsp; a product that is so empirical in its nature&nbsp; where, if you don't stop, and watch, and listen&nbsp;&nbsp; to what people are doing, you're going to miss&nbsp; so much, both on the utility and on the risks,&nbsp;&nbsp; actually. Because normally, by the time you ship a&nbsp; product, you know what it's going to do. You don't&nbsp;&nbsp; know if people are going to like it, that's always&nbsp; empirical, but you know what it can do. And with&nbsp;&nbsp; AI, because I think so much of it is emergent,&nbsp; you actually really need to stop and listen&nbsp;&nbsp; after you launch something and then iterate&nbsp; on the things people are trying to do and on&nbsp;&nbsp; the things that aren't quite working yet. So, for&nbsp; that reason alone, I think it's very important to&nbsp;&nbsp; take a break and just watch what's going on. Okay. So you take a day off every week... not&nbsp;&nbsp; off. Okay, that's not the right way to put it.&nbsp; You take a day of thinking time, deep work. I need it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I&nbsp; need to hard unplug on a Saturday,&nbsp;&nbsp; or something like that. Obviously- On a Saturday .

But it's just not possible otherwise.&nbsp; This has been a giant marathon for&nbsp;&nbsp; three years now. Yeah. Like a sprint marathon. Sprint marathon, that's right, or interval&nbsp; training, or something. I don't know how to&nbsp;&nbsp; exactly describe the OpenAI launch cadence,&nbsp; but you've got to set yourself up in a way&nbsp;&nbsp; that is sustainable. Even if this wasn't AI and it&nbsp; didn't have the interesting attributes that I just&nbsp;&nbsp; mentioned, I think you would need to do that. But&nbsp; especially with AI, it's important to go watch. So, along those lines, I talked to a bunch&nbsp; of people that work with you, that work at&nbsp;&nbsp; OpenAI. Joanne specifically said that urgency&nbsp; and pace are a big part of how you operate,&nbsp;&nbsp; that that's just something you find really&nbsp; important, to create urgency within the team&nbsp;&nbsp; constantly, even when you are the fastest&nbsp; growing product in history, growing like&nbsp;&nbsp; crazy. Talk about just your philosophy on the&nbsp; importance of pace and urgency on teams. Well, it's nice of her to say that. Two things,&nbsp; with ChatGPT, when we decided to do it, we had&nbsp;&nbsp; been prototyping for so long and I was just like,&nbsp; "In 10 days, we're going to ship this thing," and&nbsp;&nbsp; we did.

So, that was maybe a moment in time thing&nbsp; where I just really wanted to make sure that we go&nbsp;&nbsp; learn something. Ever since then, I spent so much&nbsp; time thinking about why ChatGPT became successful&nbsp;&nbsp; in the first place, and I think there was some&nbsp; element of just doing things where there was&nbsp;&nbsp; many other companies that had technology in the&nbsp; LLM space that just never got shipped. And I just&nbsp;&nbsp; felt like, of all the things we could optimize&nbsp; for, learning as fast as possible is incredibly&nbsp;&nbsp; important. So I just started rallying people&nbsp; around that, and that took different forms. For a while, when we were of that size, I just&nbsp; ran this daily release sync and had everyone&nbsp;&nbsp; who was required to make a decision in it, and we&nbsp; would just talk about what to do and to pivot from&nbsp;&nbsp; yesterday, et cetera. Obviously, at some point,&nbsp; that doesn't scale, but I always felt like part&nbsp;&nbsp; of my role here, obviously, was to think about the&nbsp; direction of the product, but also to just set the&nbsp;&nbsp; pace and the resting heartbeat for our teams.&nbsp; And again, this is important anywhere, but it's&nbsp;&nbsp; especially important when the only way to find out&nbsp; what people like and what's valuable is to bring&nbsp;&nbsp; it into the external world.

So, for that reason,&nbsp; I think it's become a superpower of OpenAI, and&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm glad that Joanne thinks that I had some part&nbsp; in that, but it really has taken a village. I love this phrase, "the resting&nbsp; heart rate of your team".&nbsp;&nbsp; That's such a perfect metaphor of just the pace&nbsp; of being equivalent to your resting heart rate. I actually learned that at Instacart, when&nbsp; I showed up there, because we were in the&nbsp;&nbsp; pandemic and it was all hands on deck. For a&nbsp; while, there was this... I think there was a&nbsp;&nbsp; company-wide stand-up because we disbanded all&nbsp; teams. We were just trying to keep the site up.&nbsp;&nbsp; And for me, I had been used to taking my sweet&nbsp; time and just thinking really hard about things,&nbsp;&nbsp; and that's important, but I really&nbsp; learned to hustle over there, and&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that's come in handy at OpenAI. Okay. So, along these same lines, I asked&nbsp;&nbsp; Kevin Weil, your CPO, what to ask you, and&nbsp; he said to ask you about this principle of,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Is it maximally accelerated?" Talk about that. That's funny, we have a Slack emoji, apparently,&nbsp;&nbsp; for this now because I used to say that.

Now, I&nbsp; try to paraphrase. Sometimes, I just really want&nbsp;&nbsp; to jump to the punchline of like, "Okay, why&nbsp; can't we do this now?" or, "Why can't we do it&nbsp;&nbsp; tomorrow?" And I think that it's a good way to cut&nbsp; through a huge number of blockers with the team&nbsp;&nbsp; and just instill... especially if you come from a&nbsp; larger company. At some point, we started hiring&nbsp;&nbsp; people from larger tech companies. I think they're&nbsp; used to, "Let's check in on this in a week," or,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Let's circle back next quarter to see if&nbsp; we can go on the plan." And I just, as a- ... on the plan and I just kind of as a&nbsp; thought exercise, always like people asking,&nbsp;&nbsp; "Okay, if this was the most important thing and&nbsp; you wanted to truly maximally accelerate it,&nbsp;&nbsp; what would you do?" That doesn't mean that you go&nbsp; do that, but it's really a good forcing function&nbsp;&nbsp; for understanding what's critical path versus what&nbsp; can happen later. And I've just always felt like&nbsp;&nbsp; execution is incredibly important. These ideas,&nbsp; they're everywhere. Everyone's talking about a&nbsp;&nbsp; personal AI, you might've seen news on that and&nbsp; I really think that execution is one of the most&nbsp;&nbsp; important things in the space and this is a tool.&nbsp; So, it's funny that that became a meme.

It's like&nbsp;&nbsp; a little pink Slack emoji that people just put on&nbsp; whatever they're trying to force the question. I was going to ask, what theme [inaudible&nbsp; 00:24:47]. So, it's a little pink,&nbsp;&nbsp; is there something in there like- It's a Comic Sans emoji that says,&nbsp;&nbsp; is this maximally accelerated? Okay. And so, the kind of the culture&nbsp;&nbsp; there is when someone is working on something,&nbsp; the push is, is this maximally accelerated? Is&nbsp;&nbsp; there a way we can do this faster?&nbsp; Is there anything we can unblock? Yeah. And we use that sparingly, right? Because&nbsp; it needs to be appropriate to the context. There's&nbsp;&nbsp; some things where you don't want to accelerate&nbsp; as quickly as possible because you kind of want&nbsp;&nbsp; process. And we're very, very deliberate on that&nbsp; where your process is a tool. And one of the areas&nbsp;&nbsp; where we have an immense amount of process is&nbsp; safety. Because A, the stakes are already really&nbsp;&nbsp; high, especially with these models, GPT-5 which&nbsp; is a frontier in so many different ways. But B,&nbsp;&nbsp; if you believe in the exponential, which I&nbsp; do and most people who work on this stuff do,&nbsp;&nbsp; you have to play practice for a time where you&nbsp; really, really need the process for sure, sure,&nbsp;&nbsp; sure.

And that's why I think it's been really&nbsp; important to separate out the product development&nbsp;&nbsp; velocity, which has to be super high from, for&nbsp; things like frontier models, there actually needs&nbsp;&nbsp; to be a rigorous process where you red team, you&nbsp; work on the system card, you get external input,&nbsp;&nbsp; and then you put things out with confidence&nbsp; that it's gone through the right safeguards. So, again, it's a nuanced concept, but I found&nbsp; it very, very useful when we needed and for&nbsp;&nbsp; everything product development, you're a dead on&nbsp; arrival, so it's important to get stuff out. We got to open source those memes so that&nbsp; other teams can build on this approach. Absolutely. So, interestingly with ChatGPT,&nbsp;&nbsp; and it's not a surprise, but not only is it the&nbsp; fastest-growing, most successful consumer product&nbsp;&nbsp; ever, retention is also incredibly high. People&nbsp; have shared these stats that one month retention&nbsp;&nbsp; is something like 90%, six month retention is&nbsp; something like 80%. First of all, are these&nbsp;&nbsp; numbers accurate? What can you share there? I'm obviously limited on what exactly I can share,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it is true that our retention numbers&nbsp; are really exciting and that is actually&nbsp;&nbsp; the thing we look at.

We don't care at all how&nbsp; much time you spend in the product. In fact,&nbsp;&nbsp; our incentive is just to solve your problem and&nbsp; if you really like the product, you'll subscribe,&nbsp;&nbsp; but there's no incentive to keep you in the&nbsp; product for long. But we are obviously really,&nbsp;&nbsp; really happy if over the long run, three month&nbsp; period, et cetera, you're still using this&nbsp;&nbsp; thing. And for me, this was always the elephant&nbsp; in the room early on. It's like, "Hey, this may&nbsp;&nbsp; be a really cool product, but is this really the&nbsp; type of thing that you come back to?" And it's&nbsp;&nbsp; been incredible to not just see strong retention&nbsp; numbers, but just see an improvement in retention&nbsp;&nbsp; over time even as our cohorts become less of an&nbsp; early adopter and more the average person, so. Yeah. So, that note is something that I&nbsp; don't think people truly understand how&nbsp;&nbsp; rare this is when a product... The cohort of&nbsp; users comes, tries it out and then retention&nbsp;&nbsp; over time goes down and then it comes back up,&nbsp; people come back to it a few months later and&nbsp;&nbsp; use it more. It's called a smiling curve, a&nbsp; smile curve, and that's extremely rare.

Yeah, yeah. Yeah. There's some smiling going&nbsp; on that's just on the team and I feel like&nbsp;&nbsp; have technology, some of it is not the product.&nbsp; I think people are actually just getting used&nbsp;&nbsp; to this technology in a really interesting way,&nbsp; where I find, and this is why the product needs&nbsp;&nbsp; to evolve too, that this idea of delegating to an&nbsp; AI, it's not natural to most people. It's not like&nbsp;&nbsp; you're going through life and figuring out what&nbsp; can I delegate? Certain sphere of Silicon Valley&nbsp;&nbsp; does that because they're in a self-optimization&nbsp; mode and they're trying to delegate everything&nbsp;&nbsp; they can. But I think for most people in the world&nbsp; it's actually quite unnatural. And you really have&nbsp;&nbsp; to learn, "Okay, what are my goals actually and&nbsp; what could another intelligence help me with?" And I think that just takes time and people&nbsp; do figure it out once they've had enough time&nbsp;&nbsp; with the product. But then of course there's been&nbsp; tons of things that we've done in the product too,&nbsp;&nbsp; whether or not it's making the core models better,&nbsp; whether or not it's new capabilities like search&nbsp;&nbsp; and personalization and all that kind of&nbsp; stuff, or just standard growth work too,&nbsp;&nbsp; which we're starting to do.

That&nbsp; stuff matters too, of course. So, you might be answering this question&nbsp; already, but let me just ask it directly.&nbsp;&nbsp; People may look at this and be like,&nbsp; "Okay, they're building this kind of&nbsp;&nbsp; layer on top of this God-like intelligence. Of&nbsp; course it will grow incredibly fast and retention&nbsp;&nbsp; will be incredible. What do you guys actually&nbsp; doing that sits on top of the model that makes&nbsp;&nbsp; it grow so fast and retain so much?" Is there&nbsp; something that has worked incredibly well that has&nbsp;&nbsp; moved metrics significantly that you can share? One thing we've learned, I'll answer that question&nbsp;&nbsp; in a minute, but one thing we've learned with&nbsp; ChatGPT is that there really is no distinction&nbsp;&nbsp; between the model and the product. The model is&nbsp; the product and therefore you need to iterate on&nbsp;&nbsp; it like a product. And by that I mean obviously&nbsp; you typically start by shipping something very&nbsp;&nbsp; open-ended, at least if you're OpenAI [inaudible&nbsp; 00:29:38] that's kind of a playbook. But then&nbsp;&nbsp; you really have to look at what are people&nbsp; trying to do? Okay, they're trying to write,&nbsp;&nbsp; they're trying to code, they're trying to get&nbsp; advice, they're trying to get recommendations&nbsp;&nbsp; and you need to systematically improve on those&nbsp; use cases.

And that is pretty similar to product&nbsp;&nbsp; development work. Obviously the methodology is a&nbsp; bit different, but discovery is the same. You got&nbsp;&nbsp; to talk to people, you got to do data science&nbsp; and you got to try stuff and get feedback. So, that's one chunk of work that we've been&nbsp; very consciously doing is improving the model on&nbsp;&nbsp; the use cases people care about. And there's also&nbsp; such thing as vibes because I'm sure you know and&nbsp;&nbsp; that's one of the things that I'm excited about&nbsp; in GPT-5 is that the vibes are really good. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; that too is, we have a model behavior team and&nbsp; they really focus on what is the personality of&nbsp;&nbsp; this model and how does it speak and talk. So,&nbsp; there's that kind of work. I would say that's&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe a third of the retention improvements&nbsp; that we see or so just roughly. And then I&nbsp;&nbsp; think another third is what I would call product&nbsp; research capabilities. They're research driven&nbsp;&nbsp; for sure. They have a research component,&nbsp; but they're really new product features&nbsp;&nbsp; or capabilities. And search is one example of&nbsp; that where if you remember in the olden days,&nbsp;&nbsp; maybe 20 months ago or something, you would talk&nbsp; to ChatGPT and it'd be like, "As of my knowledge&nbsp;&nbsp; cut off..." Or, "I can't answer that because that&nbsp; happened to recently," or something like that.

And that is the type of capability&nbsp; that has been incredibly retentive and&nbsp;&nbsp; for good reason. It just allows you to do more&nbsp; with the product personalization, like this idea&nbsp;&nbsp; of advanced memory where it can really get to know&nbsp; you over time is another example of a capability&nbsp;&nbsp; like that. I think that's another good chunk.&nbsp; And then the third stuff is the stuff you would&nbsp;&nbsp; do in any product and those things exist too.&nbsp; Not having to log in was a huge hit because it&nbsp;&nbsp; removed a ton of the friction. I think we had&nbsp; this intuition from the beginning, but we never&nbsp;&nbsp; got to it because we didn't have enough GPU&nbsp; or other constraint to really go do that. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; there's the traditional product work too. So, I&nbsp; often think about it as roughly a third, a third,&nbsp;&nbsp; a third, but really we're still learning and we're&nbsp; planning to evolve the product a ton, which is why&nbsp;&nbsp; I'm sure there's going to be new levers. You mentioned something that I want to come&nbsp;&nbsp; back to real quick. You said that it was&nbsp; something like 10 days from Hackathon&nbsp;&nbsp; to Sam tweeting about ChatGPT being live? The Hackathon happened much earlier and we were&nbsp;&nbsp; prototyping for a long time, but at some point we&nbsp; basically ran out of patience on trying to build&nbsp;&nbsp; something more bespoke.

And again, that was mostly&nbsp; because people always wanted to do all this other&nbsp;&nbsp; stuff whenever we tested it. So, it was 10 days&nbsp; from when we decided we were going to ship to when&nbsp;&nbsp; we shipped. And the research we'd been testing&nbsp; for a long time, it was kind of an evolution&nbsp;&nbsp; of what we'd called instruction following, which&nbsp; was the idea that instead of just completing the&nbsp;&nbsp; sentence, these models could actually follow you&nbsp; instructions. So, if you said summarize this, it&nbsp;&nbsp; would actually do so. And the research had evolved&nbsp; from that into a chat format where we could do it&nbsp;&nbsp; multi-turn. So, that research took way longer than&nbsp; 10 days and that kind of baking in the background,&nbsp;&nbsp; but the productization of this thing was very,&nbsp; very fast and lots of things didn't make it in. I remember we didn't have history, which of course&nbsp; was the first user feedback we got. The model had&nbsp;&nbsp; a bunch of shortcomings and it was so cool to be&nbsp; able to iterate on the model. The thing I just&nbsp;&nbsp; talked about, treating the model as a product was&nbsp; not a thing before ChatGPT because we would ship&nbsp;&nbsp; in more hardware where there'd be a release GPT-3&nbsp; and then we would start working on GPT-4 and these&nbsp;&nbsp; weird giant big spend R&amp;D projects that would&nbsp; take a really long time and the spec was whatever&nbsp;&nbsp; the spec was and then you'd have to wait another&nbsp; year.

And ChatGPT really broke that down because&nbsp;&nbsp; we were able to make iterative improvements to it&nbsp; just like software. And really, my dream is that&nbsp;&nbsp; it would be amazing if we could just ship daily&nbsp; or even hourly like in software land because you&nbsp;&nbsp; could just fix stuff, et cetera. But there's&nbsp; of course all kinds of challenges in how you&nbsp;&nbsp; do that while keeping the personality intact&nbsp; while not regressing other capabilities. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; it's an open field to get there. That's such a good example of is it&nbsp;&nbsp; maximally accelerated? Okay, we're&nbsp; going to ship ChatGPT 10 days. - Holy moly. We've been talking about&nbsp;&nbsp; ChatGPT. Clearly it's kind of a chat interface.&nbsp; Everyone's always wondering is chat the future&nbsp;&nbsp; of all of this stuff? Interestingly, Kevin Weil&nbsp; made this really profound point that has always&nbsp;&nbsp; stuck with me when he was on the podcast that chat&nbsp; is actually a genius interface for building on a&nbsp;&nbsp; super intelligence because it's how we interact&nbsp; with humans of all variety of intelligence. It&nbsp;&nbsp; scales from someone at the lower end to a super&nbsp; smart person. And so, it's really valuable as&nbsp;&nbsp; a way to scale this spectrum. Maybe just talk&nbsp; about that and is chat the long-term interface&nbsp;&nbsp; for ChatGPT, I guess it's called ChatGPT.

I feel like we should either drop the chat&nbsp;&nbsp; or drop the GPT at some point because it&nbsp; is a mouthful. We're stuck with the name,&nbsp;&nbsp; but no matter what we do, the product will&nbsp; evolve. I think that I agree that there's&nbsp;&nbsp; something profound about natural language. It just&nbsp; really is the most natural form of communicating&nbsp;&nbsp; to humans and therefore it feels important that&nbsp; you should be communicating with your software&nbsp;&nbsp; in natural language. I think that's different&nbsp; from chat though. I think chat was the simplest&nbsp;&nbsp; way to ship at the time. I'm baffled by how much&nbsp; it took off as a concept. Even more baffled by&nbsp;&nbsp; how many people have copied the paradigm rather&nbsp; than trying out a different way of interacting&nbsp;&nbsp; with AI. I'm still hoping that will happen.&nbsp; So, I think natural language is here to stay,&nbsp;&nbsp; but this idea that it has to be a turn-by-turn&nbsp; chat interaction I think is really limiting. And this is one of the reasons I don't love&nbsp; the super system analogy, even though we&nbsp;&nbsp; used to always use it is because if you think&nbsp; that way, then you kind of feel like you're&nbsp;&nbsp; talking to a person and GPT-5 it's amazing&nbsp; at making great front-end applications.

So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I don't see a reason why you wouldn't have AIs&nbsp; that can render their own UI in some way. And&nbsp;&nbsp; you obviously want to make that predictable and&nbsp; feel good. But it feels limiting to me to think&nbsp;&nbsp; of the end-all-be-all interface as a chatbot. It&nbsp; actually kind of feels dystopian almost where I&nbsp;&nbsp; don't want to use all my software through the&nbsp; proxy of some interface. I love being in Figma,&nbsp;&nbsp; I love being in Google Docs. Those are all&nbsp; great products to me and they're not chatbots. So, yes on natural language, but no on chat is&nbsp; where I would describe my point of view. And I'm&nbsp;&nbsp; just hoping in general that we see more consumer&nbsp; innovation on how people interact with AI because&nbsp;&nbsp; there's so many possibilities and you just got to&nbsp; try stuff. That's why chat stuck is we just did&nbsp;&nbsp; it and people liked it. So, I'm hoping that we&nbsp; see more there and we'll try to do our part. So, you mentioned that you kind of got&nbsp; stuck with this name ChatGPT. Maybe this&nbsp;&nbsp; is part of the answer, but I'm curious just&nbsp; are there any accidental decisions you guys&nbsp;&nbsp; made early on that have stuck and have&nbsp; essentially become history changing?

There's so many and it is funny, because you have&nbsp; no time to think about them and then they end up&nbsp;&nbsp; being super consequential. The day was one, we&nbsp; went from chat with GPT-3.5 to ChatGPT the night&nbsp;&nbsp; before, slightly better but still really bad. It was going to be Chat with GPT-3.5 because we&nbsp; really didn't think it was going to be successful&nbsp;&nbsp; product. We were trying to actually be as&nbsp; nerdy as we could about it because that's&nbsp;&nbsp; really what it was. It was a research demo, not&nbsp; a product. So, we didn't think that was bad. But&nbsp;&nbsp; I think that in the original release, making it&nbsp; free was a big deal. I don't think we appreciate&nbsp;&nbsp; that because the GPT-3.5 model was in our API for&nbsp; at least six months prior to that. I think anyone&nbsp;&nbsp; could have built something like this. It might not&nbsp; have been quite as good on the modeling side, but&nbsp;&nbsp; I think it would've taken off. So, making it free&nbsp; and putting a nice UI on it, very consequential in&nbsp;&nbsp; the way that you take for granted now. And this is&nbsp; why I think that A, distribution and the interface&nbsp;&nbsp; are continuously important even in 2025.

The paid business, which now it's a giant&nbsp;&nbsp; business both in the consumer space and in the&nbsp; enterprise space. The birth of that was just to&nbsp;&nbsp; turn away demand originally. It was not like we&nbsp; brainstormed, "Oh, what is the best monetization&nbsp;&nbsp; model for AI?" It was really what monetization&nbsp; model or what mechanism would allow us to turn&nbsp;&nbsp; away people who are less serious than the people&nbsp; who are really trying to use it? And subscriptions&nbsp;&nbsp; just happened to have that property and it grew&nbsp; into a large business. I think shipping really&nbsp;&nbsp; funky capabilities before they were polished is&nbsp; another thing where that feels like a tactical&nbsp;&nbsp; decision, but it became a playbook because we&nbsp; would learn so much. Remember when we shipped&nbsp;&nbsp; Code Interpreter, we learned so much after&nbsp; we shipped it. Now it's known as I think&nbsp;&nbsp; data analysis in ChatGPT or something like that&nbsp; just because we actually got real world use cases&nbsp;&nbsp; back that we could then optimize. So, I think&nbsp; there's been a lot of decisions over time that&nbsp;&nbsp; proved pretty consequential, but we made&nbsp; them very, very quickly as we have to, so. The $20 a month feels like an&nbsp; important part of this.

Feels&nbsp;&nbsp; like everybody's just doing that now and- On that one actually, I remember I had this kind&nbsp;&nbsp; of panic attack because we really needed to launch&nbsp; subscriptions because at the time we were taking&nbsp;&nbsp; the product down every time. It was, I don't know&nbsp; if you remember, we had this fail whale, there's a&nbsp;&nbsp; little generated poem on it.&nbsp; So, they were like, "We had to get this out." And&nbsp;&nbsp; I remember calling up someone I greatly respect&nbsp; who's incredible at pricing and I was like,&nbsp;&nbsp; "What should I do?" And we talked a bunch and I&nbsp; just ran out of time to incorporate most of that&nbsp;&nbsp; feedback. So, what I did do is ship a Google Form&nbsp; to Discord with, I think the four questions you're&nbsp;&nbsp; supposed to ask on how to price something- ? Yeah, exactly. It literally had those four&nbsp; questions and I remember distinctly A, you&nbsp;&nbsp; a price back and that's kind&nbsp; of how we got to $20. But B, the next morning,&nbsp;&nbsp; there was a press article on you won't believe&nbsp; the four genius questions the ChatGPT team asked&nbsp;&nbsp; to price their... It was like if only you knew.&nbsp; So, there's something about building in this&nbsp;&nbsp; extreme public where people interpret so much&nbsp; more intentionality into what you're doing than&nbsp;&nbsp; might've actually existed at the time.

But we got&nbsp; with the $20. We're debating something slightly&nbsp;&nbsp; higher at the time. I often wonder what would've&nbsp; happened because so many other companies ended&nbsp;&nbsp; up copying the $20 price point. So, I'm like, "Did&nbsp; we erase a bunch of market cap by pressing it this&nbsp;&nbsp; way?" But ultimately I don't care because the more&nbsp; accessible we can make this stuff, the better. And&nbsp;&nbsp; I think this is the price point that in Western&nbsp; countries has been reasonable to a lot of&nbsp;&nbsp; people in terms of the value that they get back. And most importantly, we were able to push things&nbsp;&nbsp; down to the free tier semi-regularly and we always&nbsp; do that when we can , but- So, the survey, just to give the official&nbsp; name, the Van Westendorp survey is how you&nbsp;&nbsp; guys ended up pricing ChatGPT? It was the top Google result. This&nbsp;&nbsp; was before ChatGPT has real-time information.&nbsp; Otherwise, it could have maybe price itself,&nbsp;&nbsp; but it was Discord plus Google Form plus a blog&nbsp; post on that methodology that got us there. That is incredible. What a fun story. This&nbsp; is the survey that Rahul Vohra at Superhuman&nbsp;&nbsp; popularized in his first- round article- Yeah.

Yeah, yeah, that's right. That's right.&nbsp;&nbsp; Definitely don't bring me on here as&nbsp; a pricing expert, I think you have&nbsp;&nbsp; got better people for that. Whether it was right or wrong,&nbsp;&nbsp; it is now the fastest-growing, insane&nbsp; revenue generating business in the world. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I wouldn't feel too bad. No, it worked out. Yeah. It worked out. And by the way, I'm on the $200&nbsp; a month tier, so there's clearly a room- Thank you. Thank you. ... - The story of that one is interesting too because&nbsp; originally the purpose of the Plus plan was to be&nbsp;&nbsp; able to ship first uptime and then be able to ship&nbsp; capabilities that we couldn't scale to everyone.&nbsp;&nbsp; And at some point it got so many people in the&nbsp; Plus tier that had just lost that property. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; the main reason we came up with the $200 tier is&nbsp; just we had so much incredible research that's&nbsp;&nbsp; actually really, really powerful. Like o3 Pro or&nbsp; tomorrow GPT-5 Pro and just having a vehicle of&nbsp;&nbsp; shipping that to people who really, really care&nbsp; is exciting even though it kind of violates the&nbsp;&nbsp; standard way a SaaS page should look, it's&nbsp; a little jarring to see the 10X jump.

So,&nbsp;&nbsp; thank you for being a subscriber on that&nbsp; and thank you everyone else who's watching&nbsp;&nbsp; you subscribed to any tier, it's great. I'm just going to throw a fishing line into&nbsp;&nbsp; this pond of are there any other stories like&nbsp; this? You shared this incredible story of Chat&nbsp;&nbsp; with GPT-3.5 being the original name, how you&nbsp; came up with pricing. Is there anything else? Enterprise is interesting one too because&nbsp; we've seen so much incredible adoption in the&nbsp;&nbsp; Enterprise and it's sort of objectively crazy to&nbsp; try to take on building a developer business and&nbsp;&nbsp; a consumer business and an enterprise business&nbsp; and all at once. But the story there is in like&nbsp;&nbsp; month one or two, it was very clear that most&nbsp; of the usage was work usage, actually much more&nbsp;&nbsp; than today where you've got so many consumers on&nbsp; the product and it's kind of sort of transcended&nbsp;&nbsp; into pop culture. But at the time it was writing,&nbsp; coding, analysis, that kind of stuff. And we were&nbsp;&nbsp; pretty quickly in organically in 90% of Fortune&nbsp; 500 companies in a way that I had seen maybe at&nbsp;&nbsp; Dropbox back when that was my two jobs ago where&nbsp; we had a similar story.

And since then there's&nbsp;&nbsp; been more PLG companies. But the real reason&nbsp; we did Enterprise, remember we were debating&nbsp;&nbsp; should we do enterprise or should we launch an&nbsp; iOS app because that's how small the team was. The reason we did is we were starting to get&nbsp; banned in companies because they all felt&nbsp;&nbsp; rightfully or wrongfully that the privacy and&nbsp; deployment story, et cetera wasn't there. So,&nbsp;&nbsp; I was just like, "Man, we have to do something.&nbsp; We're going to miss out on a generational&nbsp;&nbsp; opportunity to build a work product." And&nbsp; we've literally defined AGI as outperforming&nbsp;&nbsp; most humans at economically valuable work or I'd&nbsp; probably that, but I think&nbsp;&nbsp; that's the way we put it. And so, I feel like&nbsp; we had to be present there and it was a fairly&nbsp;&nbsp; quick decision at the time, but it's grown into an&nbsp; immense business. We just hit 5 million business&nbsp;&nbsp; subscribers up from 3 million, I think a month&nbsp; or two ago. So, it is kind of the spinoff that&nbsp;&nbsp; it's taking a life of its own that I'm really,&nbsp; really excited about for - That is a lot to be handling the platform&nbsp; essentially the API, the consumer product,&nbsp;&nbsp; the fastest-growing, most successful product in&nbsp; history and also the B2B side, which is clearly&nbsp;&nbsp; a massive business.

Do you have any kind of&nbsp; heuristics for how to make these trade-offs do all&nbsp;&nbsp; this at once and stay sane and be successful?
