---
title: "Inside Devin: The AI engineer that's set to write 50% of its company’s code this year | Scott Wu"
date: "2025-05-04"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Scott Wu"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "*Scott Wu* is the co-founder and CEO of Cognition, the company behind Devin—the world’s first autonomous AI software engineer. Unlike other AI coding tools, Devin works like an autonomous engineer tha"
word_count: 21774
youtube_id: "gI0ZNhA0rvE"
---

Our whole team is only like 15 engineers. You know, we use a ton of Devon when we're building Devon. Most folks on the team are definitely working with up to five Devons at once. And so Devon merges like several hundred pull requests into production in the Devon code bases every month. What percentage of your PRs are Devon versus humans right now? It's in the neighborhood of a quarter or so. Where do you think this will be at the end of the year? Honestly, we expect it to be a decent bit more than half. You guys are so ahead of how companies work with AI engineers. AI is going to be the biggest technology shift of our lives. Most of the big tech revolutions that we've had over the last 50 years like personal computer and the internet and the mobile phone. They all had this big hardware component that was a big part of the distribution. Folks who were building for those industries kind of saw their market grow and grow and grow basically steadily year-over-year as the number of people with mobile phones increased, right? As the number of people connected to the internet increased.

One of the things which is already I'd say different in AI is just how explosive the technology can be. There's no weight on hardware distribution. It means that the space is just growing so exponentially. How is the act of being an engineer and building changing? I think there's going to be way more programmers and way more engineers a few years from now pretty quickly. The form factor of what it means to be a programmer obviously is going to change. But at the end of the day, of course, the discipline is all about just being able to tell your computer what to do. And so in that lens, I really think that programming is only going to become more and more important as AI gets more powerful. Today, my guest is Scott Woo. Scott is the co-founder and CEO of Cognition, which makes a product called Devon, the world's first autonomous AI software engineer. Unlike other AI tools that I've highlighted on this podcast, Devon is designed to act like an actual remote engineer that you chat with like you would with any other human engineer through Slack or through its dedicated website. When Devon launched about a year ago, it was very much a junior engineer.

Over the past year, they made a lot of progress and Devon is now being used by tons of companies in production. We chat about how their engineering team of 15 uses Devons to build Devon, including how every engineer uses about five Devons each to help them code and move faster. How a quarter of their poll requests today are committed by Devons and that they expect this to be over 50% by the end of the year. We also talk about how Scott imagines software engineering is going to look in the future and how the role of an engineer changes from a coder to an architect. We also get into the eight pivots that they went through before landing on this path. why Scott believes AI tools like this will lead to more engineer hiring versus less. Also, where the name Devon comes from, and so much more. This episode is going to blow your mind. I highly recommend you listen to it if you're at all interested about where engineering, product building, and AI is going. A huge thank you to Claire Vo for suggesting a bunch of great questions for this conversation. If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube.

Also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year free of linear superhuman notion perplexity and granola. Check it out at lennisnewsletter.com and click bundle. With that, I bring you Scott Woo. This episode is brought to you by Interpret. Interpret unifies all your customer interactions from Gong calls to Zenesk tickets to Twitter threads to app store reviews and makes it available for analysis. It's trusted by leading product orgs like Canva, Notion, Loom, Linear, Monday.com, and Strava to bring the voice of the customer into the product development process, helping you build best-in-class products faster. What makes Interpret special is its ability to build and update customer specific AI models that provide the most granular and accurate insights into your business. Connect customer insights to revenue and operational data in your CRM or data warehouse to map the business impact of each customer need and prioritize confidently and empower your entire team to easily take action on use cases like win loss analysis, critical bug detection, and identifying drivers of churn with interprets AI assistant wisdom. Looking to automate your feedback loops and prioritize your roadmap with confidence like notion, Canva, and linear?

Visit enterp.com/lenny to connect with the team and get two free months when you sign up for an annual plan. This is a limited time offer. That's interpret.com/lenny. Many of you are building AI products, which is why I'm very excited to chat with Brandon Fu, founder and CEO of Paragon. Hey, Brandon. Hey, Lenny. Thanks for having me. So, integrations have become a big deal for AI products. Why is that? Integrations are missionritical for AI for two reasons. First, AI products need context from their customers business data such as Google Drive files, Slack messages, or CRM records. Second, for AI products to automate work on behalf of users, AI agents need to be able to take action across these different third party tools. So, where does Paragon fit into all this? Well, these integrations are a pain to build and that's why Paragon provides an embedded platform that enables engineers to ship these product integrations in just days instead of months across every use case from rag data ingestion to agentic actions. And I know from firsthand experience that maintenance is even harder than just building it for the first time. Exactly. We believe product teams should focus engineering efforts on competitive advantages, not integrations.

That's why companies like you.com, AI21, and hundreds of others use Paragon to accelerate their integration strategy. If you want to avoid wasting months of engineering on integrations that your customers need, check out Paragon at useparagon.com/lenny. Scott, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. Thanks so much for having me. Excited to be on. I'm really excited to have you here because you are building and you've been building something that is very different from what a lot of other AI companies have been doing for a long time. Although they are starting to converge to where you guys are now. We're going to talk about that. And it's also just such a unique point in the history of AI and just the journey of AI. And so it's really cool to be chatting right now and I feel like we're going to chat again in a few years and be like, "Wow, we were so right about so much and so wrong about so much." Yeah. And so I'm excited to have you here. Let's start with talking about Devon. Giving people an understanding of just what the heck Devon is. This is the main product that you guys build.

What is the simplest way to understand what is Devon? Absolutely. And so Devon is a fully autonomous software engineer that is going to work on tasks end to end. And so there are a lot of great tools for all all parts of the stack of the AI code workflow. What Devon does is it is a a a full asynchronous workflow. And so you can tag Devon on an issue in Slack. You know, you're talking about dev an issue and you tag Devon. You can tag Devon in linear. You can have Devon and Devon will make pull requests in your GitHub. And so it's very much built to to work with engineering teams a as your junior engineer. Amazing. Okay. So I remember when you guys launched this, there was like this big pitch of this is your new AI engineer. And it was it was really good at a lot of stuff. It wasn't great at other things. It's been a year now about since you guys launched. Is that right? Yeah. Yeah. What's the best way to think about like the level of seniority that engineer had back in the day when you guys launched and then the level of seniority of engineer today if that's I don't know a measure of how to think about Devon.

Yeah. Yeah. And it's crazy to think about, by the way, because, you know, a year ago when we did the initial launch, I mean, people didn't really believe that an agent was possible, right? And it was a very I mean, it was a very different time, you know, it's uh uh uh like start of 2024, you know, things with model capabilities were definitely quite a bit earlier on. Uh reasoning especially was was quite a bit earlier on. And uh and yeah, I mean, in the time since then, it's obviously developed a lot. I think in terms of uh practical skills, you know, we there there's some comparisons we make. Sometimes we kind of say, well, when we got started it was kind of like a a high school CS student and then as time went on it became more of like a college intern and now it's like a junior engineer. But but I would say though that those are more like rough guidelines because I I I really like the phrase jagged intelligence for example. Because there are obviously there are certain things that it is much better at than a human. There are certain things that it's much worse at than a human.

And I think over the last year we've we've learned a lot especially about not just coding agents but agents in general just like really building out like how all of us should be working and interacting with agents as part of our flow. And so a lot of the things that we built, I mean it's, you know, there was no Slack, uh, there was no GitHub integration, there was no linear, there was no interactive planning phase working back and forth, there was no way to touch up Devon's code. And and so a lot of the the the features that we built on the product side since then have really been about basically, yeah, figuring out how to how to make working with Devon and handing off tasks to Devon as smooth of an experience as possible. That's so interesting. So, a lot of the work has gone not into how do we just make Gavin the best possible engineer, but it's how to work with this new type of entity that we haven't ever worked with. I think it's a 50-50 of both. You know, I think the uh the capabilities obviously, you know, have improved a ton and we've seen these get better and get measurably better, but I think the other side of it is everything to do with yeah, really the product interface and the tools and so on.

And I think, you know, I think today folks generally know how to use chat bots and to work with chat bots, right? And that's an interface that that people are familiar with. And and obviously with agents, it's, you know, it's it's still like a real curve, I think, to to learn how to use them and how to get the most out of them. And so it's it's really exciting to see a lot of others starting to to build and do a lot more in the agent space as well. But I I I think this is the kind of thing that we're we're all really figuring out together as a space. What can you share about just the scale of Devon at this point? Whatever you're comfortable sharing, and then just where do you think the level of Devon's coding abilities will be in a year? So we work with companies of all stages and sizes. You know on the smallest end it goes to you know startups of just one or two people who are using Devon to to build out a lot of their kind of like initial prototype or initial product all the way up to you know big public companies fortune 100 companies or or public banks or things like that who are using Devon like across their um across their engineering teams.

In general, it's, you know, we we've seen a huge range of of the use cases there and obviously the kinds of engineering work that you're doing at a one or two person startup is very different from the kind of work that you're doing at a at a public bank. But but throughout it's all been uh basically yeah being being that junior buddy of yours that that it that that makes you go faster and really multiplies you I would say you know I I think there's uh it can multiply you as an engineer obviously by just like letting you work with your own team of devons uh instead of having to be kind of like fully synchronous on a single task. And then it's also kind of like m multiplying your team and multiplying your your team's knowledge base because Devon really accumulates a lot of the knowledge uh from from working with every member of your team and is able to bring that into each new session. Awesome. We're going to show people how it actually works later in the podcast. You're going to do a few live demos, but let's actually go to the beginning of the journey.

What's just the origin story of Devon? How did this all begin? The the founding team, I mean, most of us have known each other for for years and years and years actually. And for for almost everyone, this is our first time working together, but we've known each other a long time. And we all actually had our own kind of journeys in in AI for the last last decade or so. Um and so for myself, you know, I I ran a company called this uh before this called Lunch Club, which was an AI for a professional networking product. And I ran that for about five years. And you know, my co-founders, one of my co-founders, Steven was was one of the first engineers at a company called Scale AI, which has obviously grown a lot and done very well. Uh my other co-founder, Walden, was an early engineer at a company called Cursor, which has also obviously grown a lot and done really well. and uh and our whole team kind of like was kind of like that. You know, many of us knew each other from from from competitive programming and math competitions, but we had stayed very closely in touch, you know, in the in the decades since then.

And we've all kind of all had our own journeys. And so, you know, we had we had one person who was running teams at Neuro, we had one person who was at Whimo, someone who had their own YC tools startup uh for for machine learning. And and uh and we were really excited to build something together. And and this was around like late 2023. Um so about a year and a half ago at this point and yeah when we got started I I mean I think there there were a couple things that we felt really strongly about and one was that reinforcement learning was really working and was going to be the next big paradigm shift in capabilities. You know, back then it was, you know, the initial chatbt launch in 2022 and and and those models were to first order were, you know, what we would call imitation learning in in AI, right? Which is basically, you know, you have the model read all the text that you can find on the internet and then train it to talk like somebody on the internet would talk, right? And and there there kind of obviously a lot more details on top of that, but that's that's kind of the first order pass of of what was really done.

And it was amazing, right? I mean, it passed the turning test. it it was able to respond and to to have encyclopedic knowledge about a lot of things. And I think this new paradigm which we've gotten into over this last year or year and a half is is really high compute RL which is which is a very different paradigm right which is basically the ability to go and do work on task and put something together and then be evaluated on whether that was correct or incorrect and use that knowledge to decide what to do and and and to learn from that. Right? And so you know we felt very strongly that that was going to happen. I think it for us is code was the natural thing to work on for a couple reasons. One because you know we're all programmer nerds ourselves and so teaching AI to code is about as cool as it gets for us but but also because you know code has this whole automated feedback loop right where you can run the code and and that is the kind of automated feedback that really feeds into the RL which makes these models so great at coding.

And then the other thing that we felt very strongly about was that the product experience was going to shift from you know what I'll call like text completion to agents basically right and and and to first order I would kind of say you know there there have been a lot of great experiences in text completion you know it's been used for marketing it's been used for customer support it's been used for education and in code obviously as well as you know the GitHub copilot was was was kind of really the the the the dominant product of the that initial wave right but I think that the the big shift that we really felt we would see is moving from kind of this this texttoext model to an actual autonomous system that can make decisions that can interact with the real world that can take in feedback that can iterate and take multiple steps to solve problems and and you know now we call that agents but but but that was what we were really excited about at the time. So it was always coding, it was always agents. And in some ways that kind of it feels like it's it's it should have been, you know, like been been clear from the start.

But even with that, it's I feel like we've pivoted like eight times or something within coding agents, you know, over the last year and a half. So I just noticed recently all the AI top AI companies sort of not all but many of them the product that is winning is different. It has a different name from the company which is not typical. cursors any sphere bolt to stack blitz you guys are cognition labs like vzer versel and it just tells me like these all emerged later in the company's journey and they tried a bunch of stuff and like oh wow this thing worked and it's so interesting that it's so common amongst these top yeah and there's even I mean openai chatbt anthropic and claude and Google yeah it's it's funny yeah yeah I agree so so you know when we got started it wasn't even really a company I mean it's more like a project or or a hackathon almost you know we we got uh a bunch of we we booked an Airbnb basically for a couple weeks as it was around Thanksgiving time and and just got a a bunch of people together who were just excited to to hack on some projects and build something cool.

And it's funny actually the first the first thing that we were building for actually was more like solving like uh these more like contest programming problems and using like an agentic loop to to really do better on that. And so obviously if you run your code on test cases you can evaluate you know there there's a lot of agentic work that you can do there to try and do better and and that that we spent some time on that initially and then you know we we've kind of gone from h I mean the the the story of the whole company for us in some sense has been going from hacker house to hacker house you know so so so after that you know we had another hacker house and that's where kind of some of the initial ideas for devon came and and really building like a software engineering agent and not just like a coding agent and having it interact with a lot of these tools but but even then there were so many iterations and you know even like the idea of talking to Devon for example was like uh you know it was something that we had to come up with right initially it was just like you hand off a task and then it works and then it shows you like this whole finished code right and now obviously it's like you can jump in at any time you can get feedback on the plan you guys can scope out the task together you know when you're working with Devon and a lot of these things we we had to develop obviously and certainly we've learned a lot about the use cases the form factor we've made a lot of big improvements uh and and step function improvements on the capability ities and and Devon's ability to use tools and debug and make decisions and and so it's yeah it's been a fun journey.

I mean I think like I would say the the grounding question for us really is that which is one that we think about all the time is is really just like what what is the future of software engineering you know and how how should we be working with AI to write code because I think at the end of the day of course that's that's that's what underlines all of the the the product decisions that we make. So I like that you're asking the juicy question I wanted to get to before I ask it is just for the history books. How when did you guys start kind of hacking around and when did Devon launch? What was that? How long was that period? Yeah, so we started in November of 2023 which was in Yeah, just like hackathon mode. We officially made it into a company around the start of 2024 and then our our initial launch was in March and so it was like non-stop. I mean it's been non-stop for the entire last you know 17 months but but you know it's getting getting to the launch and then obviously working with enterprises and uh developing the product a lot more uh building in building it and and getting it to work for a lot of practical use cases and then doing get you know getting it making it fully available self-s serve in December of last year and and now we've rolled out 2.0 obviously just a few weeks ago and so it's been a been a very busy time for us understatement of the century.

Let me ask this question because you touched on it a bit. This whole idea of Devon as a person and this idea of creating a personality for Devon. It's unlike any other I believe AI app. No one else has like a name and like a you don't think of it as a person. What made you guys decide to go that approach and just how do you design it to work well that way? I would say we're it's a decision we're pretty proud of. I would say I mean I think there's a lot of different product experiences out there and I think the thing that really makes Devon unique in what it does is that you can really hand off and and and more and more what we've seen honestly is uh that that I think a lot of kind of explaining that the the Devon experience to folks is really just explaining to explain it as yeah this is your junior buddy you know and and that goes for a lot of the the parts of the flow where in the onboarding for example you know initially I would say like we've definitely had a lot of users come in and just kind of see see the blank screen and not really know or or they they'd ask, hey, like I'm going to do this whole big rearchitecture of the whole codebase and and basically, you know, what what what we've learned over time is to basically get folks to think more like, well, whoa, whoa, you know, let's work on getting the repository set up first.

Like, let's make sure we we hand Devon a couple onep pointer tasks so it can get familiar with the codebase. You know, let's get it the thing if Devon needs to be able to test the code or run the llinter or CI or or things like that. Obviously, we want to make sure Devon's got its own virtual machine set up to be able to do that. And similarly, like I think the usage pattern, you know, I think often it wasn't clear and and obviously you can sit and just kind of watch Devon do it action by action uh and work that way. But but we we found that the you know the the best workflow really as a team building a lot of stuff was to to work with multiple devons and to run them asynchronously and to to kick them off and and to only jump in basically as you needed to provide feedback or or or or steer the plan or anything like that. And so in many ways I think it's I think Devon as a name really is is is our attempt to kind of capture the soul of that as a product where it really is you know treating it like a a bit more of an autonomous entity that that you can you can hand off tasks that you can work with that you should be teaching and learning with over time.

I want to come back to an area you started us down and then I took us away from which is impact on software engineering and then how software engineering is going to change. So there's kind of two parts of this. Just like when people are using Devon today, say in the like this year, how how is the act of being an engineer and building changing for those companies? What does that look like? You know, by the way, we're all we're all software engineers ourselves. You know, it's like I I'm a programmer by training and still a programmer at heart certainly. Uh and and you know, I think the way that we have always thought about it is there's layers of abstraction and there's tools. Uh and one way I would say it at a high level is kind of you know I think of AI in general as yeah I mean computers are obviously getting more and more intelligence and are able to do more and more and you know it's it's possible there may come a day where computers truly do everything that we do and humans are not responsible for any of it.

You know I I don't expect that to come particularly soon. Uh but but but I guess what I would say is, you know, until that point, for as long as we're still part of the equation, one of the most important things to do obviously is, you know, for for us as humans is is to instruct our computers on on what we want and what we want to build and what we want to do, right? And and software engineering is, you know, we think of it today obviously as Python and C++ and JavaScript and and all these things, but at the end of the day, of course, the discipline is all about just being able to tell your computer what to do. And so in that lens, I really think that programming is if anything is only going to become more and more important as AI gets more powerful. And and I think the thing that's really that's that's that's really exciting for us is yeah, it's is like really like seeing that that kind of iterative transformation. And so you asked how what things look like today. And I I would say yeah, it's it really is like having like a junior buddy or really a team of junior buddies that you can work with, right?

And so every engineer on our team for you know, we use a ton of Devon when we're building Devon. And so Devon merges like several hundred pull requests into production in the Devon code bases every month, you know, uh which is I mean our whole team is only like 15 engineers. And so it's it's it's a pretty sizable fraction of all the code that we write. And and the way that we use it is basically yeah, everyone's got their whole team of devs, you know, if if you're going to be like looking through various issues, if you're going through feature requests, if you're going through bugs, if you're going through new paradigms that you want to build, um then it is naturally the case that there's a lot of handoff points where you just say, "Hey at Devon, here's what's going on. can you uh please take a take a pass at this, right? And sometimes Devon will be able to do the task 100% autonomously and just makes the PR and then you merge the PR and that's great. Sometimes you want to be able to to to jump in for the 10 or 20% that really needs your help.

Maybe there's uh a few details with how exactly you want to scope it or how you're architecting this feature or maybe you want to go and test the front end at the end yourself to make sure it looks exactly the way that you want and and give your your one or two lines of feedback after that. Right. But a lot of it is is really yeah is kind of like yeah learning learning to learning to work with Devon uh to to be able to just do more in parallel and build more. What percentage of your PRs are Devon versus humans right now? Yeah. I I I'd have to look but it's in the neighborhood of of a quarter or so of all of our Yeah. Yeah. That's And then what was it like six months ago? Oh, it's Yeah, it's it's it's grown a ton for I mean we've seen it grown exponentially internally ourselves as well. uh and and so it's you know it's it's kind of an interesting one where again it's always both the capabilities and the product interface and so you know I think the intelligence has in increased a lot but the other thing of course is uh you know we've spent a lot of time in figuring out how to build and um to to to really kind of build for an interface where you can get Devon's value on tasks where Devon is able to do the 80 or 90%.

So Devon is obviously not you know is obviously not perfect and it'll make mistakes and so on. And a lot of the question is basically, yeah, how how do you scope out your initial task with Devon and then just kind of set Devon off and and have it go and do the things that you want to do. You know, how do you come in at the end and review and give feedback? How do you make sure Devon learns over time? How are you able to kind of just check in as as as needed and course correct if you want to? Okay. So, today about quarter of your PRs are Devon's. Where do you think this will be at the end of the year? What would you guess? I think by the end of this year, we expect it to be more than half. and and and I mean I as time goes on you know one of the things that we've seen is just it's you're you're able to do more and more and more work uh uh asynchronously right and you're able to hand off more and more you know I think the soul of programming the soul of software engineering has really been about um through through all the areas you know not just now but you know even when it was assembly right and even when it was uh it was Pascal and even when it was punch cards or whatever you know I think the soul of it has really been basically just about defining the problem that you're you're facing and really thinking through exactly what is the solution that you want to build.

You know, thinking through the architecture, thinking through the details, and really kind of mapping out in your mind exactly what you want to to build basically uh and what you want to have your computer do. And I think that's uh you know, that's that's what makes software engineering really great. And I think that's like the funnest part of software engineering. I I think at the same time that's probably, you know, in the neighborhood of of 10% of the average software engineer's time, right? Because 90% of the time is, you know, you've got this Kubernetes error that you've got to debug and you have to see what went wrong and the system crashed or, you know, you left some port open and this is, you know, messing up or, you know, there's there's a bug report that you have to take care of or you've got to migrate your code or you got to upgrade to a new version or or things like that. You know, a lot more kind of like implementation. A and one of the the the ways that we've kind of thought about Devon uh in building Devon is is is really allowing engineers to to go from brick layer to architect, so to speak.

And a lot of it is is yeah just like getting to the point where where you can do the high level directing and you can basically specify things exactly how you want. You know I think it is very much about still having the human in control and having the human able to do the full specification but just multiplying the magnitude of of what you can do and what you can build you know in in one day or one hour or however long. So in the future say someone is trying to get into software engineering thinking about becoming an engineer. First of all, do you think people should, you know, classic question everyone's getting these days, should you still learn to code? So, it's just I'd love your perspective there. And then two, for people that are engineers today, what skills do you think will be more and more important and then less important in this discussion of moving from brick layer to architect? Yeah, for sure. I I love this question. First of all, the question of, you know, whether you should still learn to code, my answer would be absolutely yes. I think to a large extent, you know, computer science, when you take computer science classes and when you learn these fundamentals, sure, you're learning a little bit about, you know, how a particular language is syntax works or something like that, but but honestly, most of what you're learning really is about the ability to logically break down problems for number one.

And two, I would say, is just yeah, the model of a computer and and a lot of these decisions and a lot of the abstractions that we've built over time, right? Like what is a database and how should you think about a database? You know, what is a garbage collection system and how do those work and and all of these different pieces. And and the reason I think that's important is because it's it's the same with a lot of these other, you know, arguably we've already g kind of gone through these these these phases in programming. And I think this next one is going to be, you know, somewhat faster and somewhat bigger, but but in many ways a similar flavor, which is, you know, when you work with Python today, obviously a lot of things are already abstracted away from you. And in some sense, you know, someone from 50 years ago might already call Python, you know, you just get to explain in English what you want and now the computer does it for you, right? And and that's great and I think it's it's really powerful. It's it's it's opened it up.

I mean, we have far more programmers obviously than we ever have before because of that. But but I would say certainly, you know, as you're building your skills as an engineer, it really helps a lot to to understand the abstractions and to be able to peel the layers beneath, right? And so you know folks will use assembly for example if they're really performance optimizing a piece of code but also you know it's in order to build good systems and to understand these things you certainly want to understand these abstractions of you know h how how does networking work what is TCP IP like exactly or what happens with this Python code when it gets interpreted or or all of these details and I think similarly I think we will get to a state where yeah you know with with no experience at all you're going to be able to build some pretty cool stuff and uh and to do some pretty amazing work just by explaining what it is that you want. But I think that, you know, for for quite some time, you you really want to be able to to think precisely about the details, to peel back the abstractions, to to be very very very precise about what it is that you want to build and how.

And then for skills that you think are more and more valuable for engineers, like where should engineers today be leaning more and more into and versus like, you know, forget forget this, I don't need to think about this anymore. For sure. And and I think architect I mean it's you know we already have a term for architect and engineering and I think it is directly the directionally the the right term and I think a lot of it is really you know it's it's I think one thing to kind of just do a routine implementation and and write boiler plate code and things like that and I would say that uh you know in many ways AI coding has already made us much faster at that right but I I think a lot of the core questions of of understanding very complex systems and and working in the context of the whole company and thinking about you know the product that you're building or the work that you're doing uh understanding okay what are the problems that we want to solve how do we want to solve those problems what is exactly the solution that we want to build what are all these key decisions and trade-offs that we're going to be making and basically I think folks who are able to do that really really well are just going to be be able to leverage themselves more and more and so if anything I think there's going to be I think there's going to be way more product way more programmers and way more engineers you know a few years from now than there are today and I think uh I think pretty quickly the form factor of what it means to be a programmer obviously is going to change and in some sense it already has But but but I I I think there's just going to be so much more for us to build.

You know, I think one of the great things folks talk about Jevans paradox all the time. I mean, software is truly the the kind of the shining example of Jevans paradox where we have always managed as a society to to find more and more things that we want to build software for and build more code for and and I really think there's there's there's a lot more out there to do. For people that don't know Jeban's paradox, can you briefly explain it? Absolutely. Yeah. So Jevans paradox just says that as the the price of something goes down it can still be the case that uh the total spend on it actually goes up and and and so you know you can think about this with money you can think about this with time or resources but but the direct version here is I think as it becomes easier and easier to program and as programming becomes more and more effective I think we're going to have a lot more programmers you know it's it's I I think in a kind of zero sum view you might say well we're going to be we're going to be 10 times faster at software engineering And so it means that we're going to need 10 times fewer software engineers, right?

But I think in practice, what really is going to happen is actually we're going to build even more than 10 times as much code. And because, you know, all all of the work that we do is so capped, obviously on on on our ability to actually build and execute and iterate, we're going to have so many great ideas out there. We're going to have so many great products out there. Uh people are going to build a lot more personalized experiences, for example, and and and and there's going to be a lot to do. Going back to the way you guys use Devon. So you said that every engineer has kind of this fleet of Devons. How many Devons per engineer do you find most people are working with these days at at your company? Yeah. So it's very asynchronous and so obviously you can kick them up uh and start them up and and shut them down basically as you see fit. But but most folks on the team are definitely yeah are are often working with with up to five Devons at once I would say. Uh and it's a nice flow where it's you know it's you you think through all right what are the five things that we want to get done today?

uh one, two, three, four, five. You have Devon one do number one. You have dev two do number two, dev three. A and the thing about it is a lot of it is it and for what it's worth, you know, I think it's it's taken us some time to to really kind of like to to adjust to it and get to the point where it's uh it's really intuitive for us. But I I think it's uh yeah, it's it's it's definitely a different experience where you're you're handing off most things asynchronously and and the goal for each of your tasks is to be there for the parts that really need your expertise where either you really really need to define exactly what it is that you're solving for and what you're building or maybe some of the more complex parts where you want to to to steer Devon towards you know particularly what kinds of changes you want to make. you know, I want the class to be set up this way and I want, you know, we should go and change all the downstream references to this as well or whatever. But basically having having Devon do the bulk of the work asynchronously with you.

And then how many engineers do you guys have roughly? Yeah. So our engineering team today is about 15 people. 155. Yeah. Holy moly. Okay. And then each one has fiveish Devons. Yeah. Uh so there's five times the number of Devons as engineers. What I love about this is this is just like a glimpse into where the future is going. you guys are so engineers and so seeing how you operate is going to be a sense essentially how most companies will end up operating. Yeah. And and for what it's worth, you know, it's we've we've already seen this shift, I would say, ourselves, where it's uh in terms of the team, obviously, it's, you know, folks don't spend that much of their time just writing out boilerplate or uh or or or just kind of doing pure like implementation of features and uh and and people get to spend like the much more of their time focused on really just yeah thinking about the core questions of yeah, how how do we make Devon better? What is the right interface for Devon? you know what is the right flow or or or or the right set of features that's that's really going to make this uh uh as great of an experience as possible and and that's that's how we like things obviously have you when is the point you reach where you're there's takeoff of this being the by you know like your Devon starts moving so much further ahead of everyone else like once you have enough devans doing all these things they're just like where and you're 10 years 20 years 30 years 100 years ahead honestly I think as a community you know I think the the the kind of all all of us as engineers around the world I think are going to have think about this and build for this and kind of adapt to these new technologies.

But what I would say is is yeah I think more and more and especially as capabilities get better but but certainly you know even in steady state today I think you know I think more and more I think things are going to shift towards this kind of asynchronous flow and and one of the reasons I would say for that is in the real world you're just capped by real world constraints right and I think that one way to put it is is kind of like and don't take these numbers exactly but but you know it's it's kind of like the first order math of it is of of course you know being able to to to write files or to complete this function or complete this line or things like that. You know, it helps a ton. It's it's a really great experience, right? There's a lot of parts of of of building software that obviously are almost not that at all, right? It's you know, if you have a bug that you're trying to fix and so you uh you you you spin up the local server, you click around on your own products on the front end and try to reproduce the bug yourself.

You know, once you have the error, you you take a look at data dog and and you see what happened and you try to find other errors in the logs. you know, you look at those files and you see what went wrong. You make some edits, maybe you go and like rerun the whole process again now that you, you know, to make sure your change looks right, right? A and that's a lot of, you know, what it means to be a software engineer, right? And, you know, these are processes that take real time. I I think we're going to shift more and more towards this agentic workflow because, you know, that's in some ways it's kind of like the the way to really get to the, you know, 200% 500% a thousand% gains that that that that we'll be getting to with software engineering over the next few years. Okay, enough talk. Let's show people what the heck this actually looks like. Let's uh you've got a couple demos prep that show a few use cases that you found helpful. So, you're going to pull up your screen and then we'll Let's do it. Kick it off and then we'll talk as it's happening.

And so so the whole process obviously of working with Devon is working asynchronously. Uh and so uh I thought it'd be cool for us to actually just watch Devon a little bit in action and then you know we can we can go through some other examples of of of work that Devon's done or things that Devon does for us even on our team for example. But but but then we can check back in asynchronously with our with our Devon after. And so I'll share this real quick. And the the the key thing I you know that I would just emphasize here is a lot of it obviously is really just about Yeah. think thinking about as a software engineer or as engineers ourselves or engineering teams um um engineering teams PMs and so on you know what are the what what are the things that we would want to build that we would want to hand off and so uh you know we have Devon set up with our own Devon codebase for example and so I'll I'll go ahead and kick off a Devon for that and so I'll just say hey at Devon I'm on with my friend Lenny Hi Devon um can you modify Devon web app to let's let's let's feature let's feature your um your your newsletter as part of the uh as part of the Devon uh website.

Let's do it like on on the real Devon website Lenny's going to lose all your users. And so we're going to kick this off. As you can see, Devon gets started instantly and and goes ahead and respond. And again, you can work with this asynchronously. You can work with it synchronously as well. For for this, we'll we'll just kind of go in a little bit and see exactly what's going on. But as you can see here, Devon's going through files and uh and taking a look through a lot of stuff. And so we we can we can follow here basically as we need to and and see what makes sense. You can see Devon's already uh called out a few particular pieces, right, where there's the sidebar uh which we have implemented on the on the front end and there's pieces there and we're going to have uh a new component and that component is going to link to Lenny's website. That all sounds good. Devon's asking us any questions if there's anything that we have here. Same story here where it's kind of you can let Devon make its own decisions and and hand off or you can um uh you can go ahead and and be uh kind of kind of give some more thoughts, right?

Um should the button open in a new tab or within the application? I'll say let's let's open it in a new tab. And you could answer these at any point like is it waiting for you? You can answer these at any point. You can hand off hand back off. It's not going to be like just god damn it, I just wrote it this way. Why why didn't you tell me earlier? That's right. Yeah. One one of the one of one of the big pieces, you know, with with Devon is Devon will always be enthusiastic. You know, we'll always be ready to put in the hours. Changing scope. Thanks, guys. Uh, and so, so we'll we'll give Devon a chance to work and it's going to go through these files and it'll make a pull request for us and we'll see uh and go from there. But I I thought it'd be fun to to show some other examples of of Devon in action as well. One of the uh the the examples actually this morning which I just used Devon for is I asked Devin to to help me brush my own facts up uh for this podcast.

Um and so obviously a huge fan of the podcast and the newsletter. Uh I asked Devon, "Hey Devin, going to be on the podcast. Could you please research everything you can about him and make a nice website quiz for me so that I can make sure I know my facts?" Right? And so Devin, this was just this morning. I asked Deon to do this and I'll kind of just show what Deon did. It looks like Yeah, went to Wikipedia first. Uh, unfortunately, it's not a page on Wikipedia, which is Lenny, we'll work on that, I guess. Making that deal yet, they they did you dirty. I mean, we need that. We need a page for this. And so, then, you know, then it went and found it on Spotify. Uh, so you're watching what it's researching live. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, so this is this was this morning, obviously, and this is a playback of what Devon did. This is this is part of Devon. You could just like watch what it did. Yep. Yeah. Uh, and so, you know, especially when you're building engineering projects or something like that, you can see kind of like each of the steps that Devon was doing or if Devon tested the code locally, obviously you want to be able to go and look and see, you know, what what what Devon was clicking around with and testing or or things like that.

So, it found the newsletter. It's going and looking at this, right? And it's it's going and reading all this. Uh, and then it says, "Okay, let's get started with uh with with putting the code together, right?" And so it says, "Hey, I've researched, you know, it's it's going through and writing all of this, putting app together." It plays its own quiz itself, actually, which we should just we should just play this quiz actually. Let's let's see. Let's see how much I know. What is the name? Uh, what is the name of the podcast? Lenny's podcast. Let's for people not watching, so to say, approximately how many subscribers? A million. Very good. Yeah. Yeah. What is What are three main topics Lenny focuses on? Oh, product growth and career. Very good. It's a good quiz. I think a lot of people What does Lenny's do besides podcasting? Okay. Writing, angel investing, and advising. Okay. How often does Lenny publish? Once a week, right? Once a week. And so, yeah. So, so we can we can go through all these and do all these. And I took this quiz, by the way, obviously to to make sure that I was well prepped.

But yeah, this is kind of one of the more fun examples obviously of just like Scott, how many how many how many subscribers do I have in my newsletter? Uh, over a million, actually. Yeah. And and then one one last one I'll show and then maybe we can come back to our initial run after. But u is is you know like I was saying like a lot of this is really built to to work with all of the the existing code workflows out there. And so you know for example we were doing uh some exploration with the deepseek repository uh on GitHub and uh we we imported it into Devon and we we got our own fork of it set up in Devon and a couple things I just wanted to show here. You know, one is Devon sets up its whole wiki with all of its internal understanding. And so when Devon indexes the codebase, obviously building a representation of the codebase and learning it and improving it over time is one of the big things that Devon does. Uh and and funnily enough, we found that naturally humans really are interested to understand this codebase representation as well.

And so so you know, Devon wiki is something that we built here. And you can take a look at all these different pieces and see each of these different things here. Here are the FP8 operations. You know, here's an SG lag integration. There's diagrams of of how the different layers are built and put together. There's, you know, deployment operations. There's a lot of details about the architecture as well. And you can ask questions about it as well. And so, for example, you can say, how does DeepSeek handle multi-token prediction designed for spec and it's able to kind of search through the entire codebase and give you an informed answer based off of that. Uh, and so, so we use this a lot. And, you know, it's it helps when you're when you're scoping out a task for Devon and doing an initial prompt. And it also helps obviously just in a vacuum like you often have questions about your codebase that are really nice, right? This episode is brought to you by Atio, the AI native CRM. Atio is built to scale with your business from day one. Connect your email and calendar and Atio instantly builds a CRM that matches your business model with all of your companies, contacts, and interactions enriched with actionable insights.

Sync in your product's usage, billing info, or any other data sources. And Atio's flexible data model will handle it all without any rigid templates or workarounds. With Atio, AI isn't just a feature, it's the foundation. You can do things like instantly prospect and route leads with research agents, get real-time insights from AI using customer conversations, and build powerful AI automations for your most complex workflows. Industry leaders like FlatFile, Replicate, and Modal are already experiencing what's next for CRM. Go to atio.com/lenny to get 15% off your first year. That's atio.com/lenny. Something that I've I've learned as I've been talking to more and more AI uh building companies and apps is there's a big difference in how large of a codebase they could integrate into. Yeah. And that's a big deal for companies that are existing versus startups, people that have large existing codebase. What's the how should people think about what kind of codebase Devon can plug into? Yeah. Yeah. So, we go all the way to to the biggest code bases possible, right? And one way I'd kind of put it is, you know, how the way that that that we as engineers would think about a large code base is certainly, you know, when you're making changes or when you're thinking about a particular task, you're not uh you're not bringing in every single line of the codebase at once, right?

you have a high level abstraction that that you're able to think about and look into, right? And and then you're obviously able to zoom in and get to kind of higher resolution on each of these different things, right? And so Devon works in much the same way where, you know, the first thing it'll do is it's going to kind of figure out like the high level architecture of of what's going on here and what this is built for and so on. But within each of the comp each of the components, it's obviously also going to be able to to zoom in and give some more detail about each of these. And so here's you know FP8 to Bflat 16 uh and how exactly a lot of that is set up right here's each of the the different parts of the codebase. And so similarly it's you know we we've built this to to be scalable. It's essentially coming back to the engineer as architect is now it's helping you understand the architecture kind of circling back to that. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. And one of the fun use cases that we've seen actually with folks is is they'll often actually uh use Devon uh get Devon's help to to onboard new engineers on the team, right?

and and you know when you're new and you're joining there's obviously a lot of questions that you have about the codebase or about how things are set up. It also sometimes can be a little bit awkward to you know to ask your mentor or your manager the questions and if you're worried that they're going to be really dumb questions right and and so it's nice just be able to ask Devon and to to to go through Devon's wiki and to understand these internal representations. Right. I think that's really interesting because it comes back to your point that Devon is not just a junior engineer. It's what you call a jagged jagged engineer. a jagged intelligence jagged jagged intelligence where like it's almost like a staff engineer at understanding the codebase. Usually you have to ask an engineer that's been there a long time what does this do? Where's this thing? How does this work? And it feels like Devon's very good at that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously and the the retrieval and kind of processing a lot of code and and a lot of tokens at once is, you know, something that that language models are really great at, right?

And so so basically being able to get those gains in the places that you need them is is really great. Yeah. Sweet. All right. You got a couple more uses. Yeah. Then yeah, one one last flow I'll show is just, you know, we we just rolled this out last week actually, but it's a a full kind of Devon automation setup with linear, right? And so, you know, if you have tasks that you're doing on the Deep Seek repository, for example, and it's all set up, all you have to do is you just add the Devon label and Devon will come through and it'll give you this, right? And it's going to give you its thoughts on what the task looks like and you know, you can take a look at each of the particular files that you see or it'll point out snippets that it thinks are important. Um, and from there if if you feel good about uh if you feel good about what was built uh or or or or the conclusions that we came to, then you can just start off a dev session that will go and actually do that work.

So that is insane. Like that sounds like such a simple idea, but essentially what you're saying is there are tasks in linear that are fixes and features and now Devon just goes off and can just do them for you. Yeah. Yeah. And so so it's definitely like it's it's a it's a hands-on process. you know, you you certainly want to be involved when Devon is scoping out the task or giving you its thoughts. And the nice thing, too, by the way, is Devon will give you its confidence level and, you know, here's how likely I think uh I am to to to really understand this piece or that piece or whatever, right? But uh uh but but but it helps make things a lot faster, right? And and to your point, you know, it's like a lot of product managers, for example, obviously love to to be able to use Devon and Linear to understand things better, the codebase better or or things like that. And you know, Claire Vo from for example from uh from Launch Darkly is uh is a big Devon user and she loves uh basically going and scoping out tasks or asking data questions or asking hey what's you know what's going on or or or like is this merged into production yet or you know uh is this a feature flag right now or what percent of people are getting this or that feature.

You it's it's a clean way basically to to to make that intelligence much more accessible. I love just like with the integration with linear that you can still keep it really simple. you know, you add a little ticket like, "Hey, this link to this homepage would do this and Devon will be really good at understanding what you mean and then show you here's what I'm thinking. Is this right?" Yeah. Yeah. Cool. Okay. So, so, so, yeah. So, Devon did finish working. It seems like there's something going on with the CI and it's debugging that right now, but it went ahead and put up the initial first pass pull request and we can take a look. And it's uh uh this is the Devon website obviously in in this custom deploy. And uh we have Lenny's newsletter right here. Let's ship this to production. Let's go. will be so confused. Yeah. Uh that's amazing. Okay, show it again real quick. So, I just added it to the homepage of of of Devon. Deon obviously has access to our Devon codebase. It does a lot in here. And so, it's super familiar with all the pieces here.

Beautiful. And it's Yeah, I like how that looks. We've got Devon search and we got newsletter. Drive some great growth. I'll link to your site. You link to my site. We'll get some page rank going. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Is that a good example? Oh, there it is. What a beautiful website for my newsletter. Is that just like a good example of the kind of thing Devon is very good at? Like here's a very specific thing to change on the website. How does should people think about what Devon is very good at and maybe where it starts to fall apart? You know, the the way that we often describe it is I think Devon is best when it is working on tasks that are well defined. You know, it's one way to put it is you want to be giving Devon tasks, not problems, right? And a lot of these things, you know, like what what what you just saw, which was kind of like a a quick front-end feature request or a bug fix or adding testing and documentation or or things like that. You know, one of the things that that makes a loop really nice, obviously, is a quick way to iterate and test.

And so with something like this, obviously super easy for us, for example, to just go pull up the the preview and see that the link worked, right? Obviously would be easy for Devon to do as well. Devon will often go and log into Devon and start a Devon session and make sure it's, you know, when when it's working on our own codebase, which is kind of hilarious. But yeah, you you generally want something that is kind of like e easy to verify and easy to test is the main thing. And you can work on bigger projects or bigger asks as well, obviously. But in that case, you should certainly expect to to need to steer Devon more to make sure you're really, you know, to to make sure it's it's going the right direction. It's interesting because that's very similar to the way people talk about synthetic data and reinforcement learning creating data that's very easy. There's like a very definitive answer. Yes and no. Yeah. It's very clear. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let me ask you this question. What's something that you guys debated a lot as you were just designing and building Devon? I'll give a couple that come to mind.

You know, one I would say is um yeah, a question of I'll call it like how opinionated we should be. you know, we had the workflows that we used to Devon for, which was very much, as you can see, for, you know, basically integrating to our Slack and GitHub, making pull requests uh for us in our repos, responding to issue reports or things like that. And naturally, you know, we've we've had certainly a lot of other, you know, kind of different things that have come up that folks have tried. I mean, uh we have we have folks who like order their Door Dash with Devon, for example, even we have folks who who who certainly, you know, a lot of people who who are kind of building cool websites from scratch or or working on things like that. And yeah, I mean it's it's been an interesting trade-off for us where I think the way that I would describe it is, you know, in our product certainly, you know, the large bulk of the features that we build are for this kind of like, you know, making pull requests and engineering teams use case, but I think uh basically our our kind of general stance with all the others is obviously if folks want to use Devon for that, that's great.

And we want to just kind of make sure that they're they're fully aware about the limitations and about where things get caught up. It's it's it's funny with with AI especially because you know I would say one of the I would say the most common pieces of startup advice out there I'd say is you know focus on a really niche cohort you know do things that don't scale you know make make one use case that's really great right and then you grow from there and I think that's uh you know I I I think that's great advice across the board but yeah it's kind of interesting because you know I think with generative AI you you naturally see this where a lot of product experiences can turn out to be more general right and and so It's it's an interesting trade-off for us. You know, this is something that we still always go back and forth on and how much do we want to, you know, yeah, to to to to do more to to support all the other kind of use cases out there and to to handle other things that that folks might want to do with Devon.

I think another one that comes to mind is how much Devon should be, let's say, like a single comprehensive project experience versus like a suite of tools. Um, and as you can see here, you know, we have we have Devon search, we have Devon Wiki, you know, we have the linear ticket scoping, and certainly, you know, these these tools interact with each other. But I think as time has gone on, we have we've we've we've seen it more and more as as really building this suite of tools. And I think that, you know, I think the core agent experience and the core kind of agent that will go off and build each of these build things for you, for example, is always of course going to be, you know, that's Devon and that is like the core piece. I think that will always be what's really special about about our work. But but I I think that all of the other features out there, you know, it's it the there is a complex suite of of work that's required for real world software sharing and and engineering is just messy at the end of the day, right?

And so so I think there are a lot of different flows and a lot of different use cases that make sense. And you know, an obvious thing to point out is is you could ask the same questions to Devon search as you could to Devon, right? And Devon will go through and it'll do the same thing. It'll go through and look through the files and give you an answer and stuff. But but with that said, you know, on the one hand, I think on the capability side, there's certainly a lot you can do to really optimize things for very specifically question answer about this repository and that made sense to to really kind of build into a specific kind of feature. And then on the other side, I would say uh we found that users actually really uh really like having this this access of control, right? Sometimes you sometimes you have a a task that you're thinking about, but you actually don't want Devon to get started on the task just yet. You want to ask Devon and understand what parts of the codebase might be relevant, right? And so you want to be very direct about saying like this is just an ask and I I just want to see the snippets of the codebase that relate, right?

Or I just want to look at the the wiki and understand the existing representation. And so it's kind of on both the capabilities and on the the the UX side, we've we've found that that's kind of what what's naturally made sense over time. Let's talk about the landscape then of just other companies in the space, which is something a lot of people are always thinking about. There's all these different approaches. you guys are going full-on AI engineer. There's obviously IDE companies. There's also just like models being built that are really good at engineering. Uh, everyone's kind of starting to build agents now. You guys are ahead on this in a lot of ways. Like OpenAI just recently said they're going to build a software engineering agent. Anthropic's got something there. You know, Cursor and Windsurf have their own little agents and Replet. Thoughts on just kind of where you guys fit in in the landscape and then where you how you think you win long term? How do you think about that? Yeah. Yeah. And for what it's worth, you know, I think all of these are incredible teams. I think uh you know, really smart and and really forward thinking folks who who are building a lot of great products out there.

And it's uh I think there's there's there's a lot to do honestly, you know, over the next few years with with the advent of AGI or or whatever you want to call it. You know, I think uh one one of the quotes that I love is is in 2017 if you ask if we had AGI, the answer is no. And in 2025, if you ask if we have AGI, the answer is well, you have to define AGI and you know, it depends on your subject. Yeah. Right. And I think it does kind of get to the point of of I mean there there is a lot of really amazing stuff happening. You know, I think that it's easy to underrate I would say just just how how big of a shift it is that we're seeing, right? Where I think there are a lot of great products out there, for example, over the last 10 years, 20 years, 30 years that have made each of these kind of like uh kind of these different niches of of the the the life cycle of building a product a little bit easier, for example, right? There's there's great products out there for instant response.

There's great products out there for logging. There's great products out there for billing. There's, you know, all these different tools, right? A and the obvious thing is, you know, what we're seeing with AI is all of these spaces are are going to be moving multiple times faster, you know, and this it's going to be like an order of magnitude shift if anything, right? And so I I think from our perspective, you know, we've obviously had a very specific lens that that we've bet on this whole time and that is, you know, autonomous coding agents and there's there's a lot of problems to solve there to be honest, right? like the the there's still a ton to do on the core capabilities certainly and you know we see cases all the time where it's like wow why did devon make that decision that seems you know no human engineer would have ever done that you know there's there's all sorts of spots where you know with the product interface there's obviously a lot to think about and I think it's it's by the way not just like a single thing that that that we're working towards but something that will change with every addition of capabilities like I kind of think of it as like there's there's 20 generations of agent product you know agent coding experiences to come You know, I think that I think the one that we'll get to over the course of several years is probably something where you don't even look at the code at all, right?

And you're actually just looking at your own product and you're just able to look and and specify and say, "Hey, you know, this button should be a little bit rounder. Let's do that. And and by the way, let's add a new tab here and and maybe we should save this information. Let's let's start up a database table and let's index it on x, y, and z columns." And you're just, you know, basically working with your products in real time and having your agent build out those things for you. Obviously, there's going to be a lot of generations, you know, in between the here and there, but but I think the product experience itself is going to change every single time. And then obviously, you know, there's there's all the practicality of just getting it out there in the world. And so, you know, folks obviously need to need to learn how to use the the new technology. There's a lot to do to to deploy into all the messiness of real world software. You know, there's a lot of cobalt out there still. There's a lot of forran out there still. there's you know there's lots of kind of abstractions and and details that folks have done and so I think from our perspective you know we have we have been been since the beginning have been laser focused on agentic coding and that is the one thing that we've really believed in it's the one thing that we've designed for and you know that goes all the way to uh even the revenue model with ACUs and and and having the usage based setup it goes into obviously all the product experiences of thinking how okay like where do you want to talk to Devon you know you want to be able to talk Devon and Slack.

You want to be able to to spin this up from your issue tracker. You want to be able to all these things and then of course the capabilities. And so I think it's uh I don't think there's any one easy answer. I think it's obviously a combination of things, but but this is really the this is this has been the space that we've lived in and and spent all of our time in for for the last year and a half. And it's it's going to be that way for the next five or 10 years, too. So along these lines, a big question everyone always has in AI is moes and defensibility. It's a question I've been asking every founder that comes on. How do you just think about how to build a mode in the space when it's so much easier to build and these models are, you know, so much is built on these models that are themselves advancing so quickly? I I'd give one slight uh kind of tweak on that which is I think it's often less about moes and more about stickiness. And what I mean by that is, you know, moes are in some sense typically what folks mean by a mode is something that means that a competitor couldn't even enter you know the market.

And and I agree that at a high level, you know, a lot of different folks at different layers of the AI spectrum, you know, uh the the foundation labs or the application layer or so on, you know, I I don't think there's any kind of like hard barrier that would prevent others from entering. I think what does exist is stickiness, which I would kind of define as, you know, once you have a product experience that you really like, are you excited to keep using that experience or is there kind of like, you know, I is there an effect where is it is just as easy from now on to just switch onto a new one and learn a new one and so on, right? And I think from that perspective, I think there's a there's a few things that are really great about coding agents in particular. You know, one I would say is there is a lot of just inherent kind of stickiness and learning and buildup over time, which is that as you use Devon and as your whole team uses Devon, it's the same thing with with an engineer, right? If if you're joining on day one versus, you know, it's you've been at the company for five years, you know, you wrote half the code yourself, you you've touched every file, you've built every single piece, right?

You know all the engineers. And so similarly, it's like Devon will really learn and build its representation of of your codebase and of your stack and of your process over time. Um, and we'll be able to do a lot more with that. And then the other piece of it, which I think is really uh is is really exciting, I'd say, is there really is a lot to do of of what I would kind of call like a multiplayer aspect of of code, which if you think about it is is how a lot of things get done in the real world certainly, right? And so um you know it's it's one thing to have you know your own experience which you use yourself as just an engineer but for example ourselves like we see this all the time where uh some engineers who are working with Devon and teaching Devon things and as I mentioned like folks will have Devon on board their new engineers and and kind of convey that knowledge to them right or similarly it's like you you know I'll start a session with Devon in Slack and I'll say hey you know it'd be cool if we could do this thing and some other engineer will chime in and say oh by the way like the reason we did it initially was X and Y and So Devon just make sure when you do this change that you you know still support that workflow and Devon will say okay sounds great right or Devon will make a PR you know I'll be working with Devon we'll make a pull request in GitHub and somebody else will be reviewing that PR or give some comments and and Devon will work on that too right you know you you'll be in linear and so so all all these kind of spaces it really does just kind of set up for an experience where basically where where where Devon can just grow in the value that it can provide for your whole work over time and so I think from that perspective Like if anything, you know, it's we we want there to be a lot of innovation and a lot of new products and and so on.

You know, I I I don't think that the goal is to try to lock other people out of of building. You know, there's a lot of stuff to build and I think there's going to be a lot of different experiences. I think from our perspective, what we think about is more like how can we make Devon more and more and more useful as you're using it more. It's very similar. Uh we had Michael from uh cursor the CF cursor on the podcast and he had a similar point of just he thinks smotes are just kind of like consumer like Google is the way he thinks it's like Google where people can easily switch you just have to say the best and that's the answer. Yeah. And it feels like you're adding to that of just like but also if you can create some stickiness where it is uh very hard to leave because it's so good at what it's doing and it's built knowledge and and integrated to your workflows uh that it builds on that on that stickiness. I and I think one of the things that's that's that's you know that's nice about our space too is software engineering for better for worse is is is has a very clear tie to value you know and what it means is I guess one way to put it is is there is always kind of like a clear next level at least for the next while you know I think there there could be some point where you're just like all right just build the entirety of YouTube for me you know and Devon just does the whole it's like there's probably been like a hundred million hours of human engineering time built building YouTube building the algorithm building all infrastructure all all the the everything every little detail and like you know that maybe there's some time where Devon just does that out of the box you know that that's obviously going to be a long time from now I I think on the interim on on every level in between obviously it's you know it makes a difference the the the quality of of software engineering and I think one of the cool things with developers obviously is developers are really willing to to to to learn new experiences and to put in effort if it means that they're able to have a higher and higher quality experience.

So awesome. I'm going to spend a little time on the tech that enables Devon. Without divulging uh trade secrets, just what what allowed you to make Devon so good? Was there like an unlock with a certain model? A lot of some folks have shared like 3.7 3.5 was a huge unlock for a lot of their products. Just what what's kind of the key to the the way you've architected or built Devon that makes it work so well? We obviously, you know, we we've we've been betting on agents for a long time. I I I think that agents were uh were doable and workable like a lot earlier than most folks might have thought. But certainly I I think as the as the community has really rallied around it. I mean you see the impacts of that in the pre-training. You see the impacts of that in uh in in in a lot of the work that's that's done with these models. I I I actually don't think there's been any like from our perspective I don't think there's been any single uh like step function base model shift or anything that has been kind of like a night and day difference in Devon.

But I certainly think that the curve of you know every every point on the chart I mean there's a new model that comes out every like every week now has uh h has has obviously made a big difference in terms of what we've been able to do and then obviously on top of that you know we work with with with the research teams at all these foundation labs to to to do a lot of our work on top and so I I think that my my hot take here which I would give is I think the I think in terms of base intelligence we're honestly basically already there and and I think a lot of what we see actually and and what we spend our time on uh is less so obviously we we don't pre-train our own models or things like that you know it's it's is less so like increasing the base IQ of a model for example and more about kind of like teaching it all of the idiosyncrasies of real world engineering right and uh and thinking about here's how you use data dog and do this and and here's how you might diagnose this error and here are the different things that you could run into and and here's how you handle each of those and when you're ready here's how you make GitHub PR and you know this is true in engineering it's true in other space as well.

I mean there's so much detail and idiosyncrasy to to the work that we all do obviously day-to-day and and a lot of it is kind of like like teaching the model to mirror the complexity of the real world I would say rather than rather than kind of like getting it to some some higher fundamental level of problem solving which I think the foundation labs are doing a really great job. There's something you shared when we were chatting before we started recording around the growth of previous kind of transformative technologies were very hardware oriented and they there was like a limiting factor to their growth and AI is not that you just share that insight for a number of reasons I think AI is going to be the the the biggest technology shift of our lives but but I think one thing which is what we were just talking about before this which is is is you know most of the big tech revolutions that we've had over the last 50 years I I'm thinking about like personal computer and the internet and the mobile phone and so you know they they all had this this this big hardware component that was that was a big part of the distribution right and so you know you had the internet and initially it was just these universities that were talking with one another but obviously over time we got the whole world plugged into the internet and it took years and years and years the same thing was true with mobile phone the same thing was true with PC right and the you know the the the thing that's interesting about that in particular which is I would say we're we're already seeing the effects of that is, you know, in these hardware distribution machines, you're obviously there there's a lot that depends on real time, right?

And so, you know, folks who were building for those industries kind of saw their market grow and grow and grow basically steadily year-over-year as the number of people with mobile phones increased, right? As the number of people connected to the internet increased, right? And and many of those businesses, it's it's it's still crazy to think, but but many of those businesses got started right in the beginning. having like Apple and Microsoft were started like right around the same time, you know, and the same is true for a lot of the great internet businesses or or wherever. But but but certainly it was kind of like a it was a it was something that touched the whole world, you know, with time or or or a large fraction of the whole world. And uh and it had a really massive impact, but but it it took place over several years, right, because of of the time that it took and I think one of the different in in AI is just how explosive the technology can be. you know, once once AI code, you know, and and I think we're firmly in the, you know, in past the inflection point in AI code, right?

Where it's as an engineer, you know, if you're not using AI at all, right? Code, I mean, you're uh, you know, you're falling behind honestly and and it is a technology that everyone should have and should be using and and there's no kind of like uh there's no weight on hardware distribution that that is causing that. And it means that that it it means that exponentially. Basically, Michael Pollen has this interesting point that uh cliches are cliches because they're so true and you that's why you they're like cliches are like I heard that a million times and I think it's like people hear this like I know but like it's actually insane what is happening. Yeah. That's what that's why you're here to help us through this transition. Yeah. No, I mean it's it's a fun time and and I think there will be you know real real investment and real work that it takes. But I but I I think from the perspective of us as engineers for example I think it just means it's it's it's so important to to to stay in the loop with everything that's happening and and it's you know as we're seeing it's not only because uh of your learning and your ability to work these technologies but it's also you know about basically like teaching teaching the AI you know what what there is to know about your codebase in order to make it really effective at building with you and uh and doing more of the things that you would want it to do.

So, so along those lines for company people listening that they're like, "Hey, we should be using Devon at our company, what are what are things you found to be helpful in helping an engineer at a company get adoption and be able to use Devon either culturally or logistically?" Uh so so a pattern which we often see with folks is there will be a few folks at the team who are really excited uh and want to try out the new thing and they want to put in the the the investment and and and and are really excited to get it going and they'll go through all the setup you know they'll give Devon the repos they'll teach Devon how to run the lint and the CI and all of those details right and they'll start by by giving it those initial tasks and kind of like help Devon build a foothold basically and as time goes on uh eventually folks will see wow Devon's writing all these PR is Devon's you know doing this Devon person that just joined the company is just knocking out PRs. Yeah. And they'll see that and then naturally they'll get on and they'll get an account and one of the cool things of course is by the time they join Devon already knows a good amount of detail about the repositories that they're already working in and they're working with that.

And so so one of the the really cool things which we often see is yeah that they the early adopters themselves can really pave the way I think for for everyone else on the team. But but yeah, I think the main thing I would just kind of call out is yeah, it really does take it's a very different product experience, right? And and I think it's uh for what it's worth, you know, I think there's still a lot more that we should be, you know, that that that we can do to to make it as intuitive and as clear as possible to folks like how to use Devon and what the right steps are and how to really maximize value out of Devon. But I think that uh yeah, it's the kind of thing where if you if if you put in the investment and understand exactly, you know, what it takes to to get Devon to to be successful, it's like, you know, we've we've found ourselves that as time has gone on, we just use Devon more and more and more with with every uh with every kind of every next update. So, so let me follow that thread.

There's a question I ask every AI app building founder, which is if you could sit next to every new user of Devon and whisper something in their ear to help them be successful with Devon, like one or two tips, what would those tips be? I I think the biggest thing I would say is it it really is just, you know, treat Devon like your new junior engineer. Um, and I think that's that's the biggest thing. I think folks come in and you know they they see the the blank the blank page and they think of all sorts of kind of like uh various things that they want to try out. they think of lots where you know I think typically the flow that we see that works best is obviously you know you can try demos and you can you can do things but but a lot of it is just like yeah let's let's figure out what tickets we want to get done today or this week and let's have Devon get started on those and you know let's start with the kind of the the easier ones and then work with Devon and understand like what what things Devon needs to get set up to be able to test its own code and do this well and then let's let's scale up over time and then obviously it's you know as you work with your engineer you understand better kind of how to communicate with them or or what what are the right tasks or projects to bring them in on.

But I I think that's um that yeah that that really is the oneliner for us. Okay. Uh there's a question I've been meaning to ask. I just want to get back to this because something I think a lot about with with Devons. Everyone's going to have five Devons. Let's say 10 Devons. Everyone's kind of turning into a basically an engine manager with a bunch of junior engineers. Yeah. which isn't necessarily the best job in the world because it's just a bunch of review at least you don't have to do performance reviews and one ones but you know it's like sitting around checking a lot of PRs all day there's a sense of you become an architect and which is kind of what every engineer wants to become eventually right they're all like I just want to think about the architecture I don't want to code all these stupid fix bugs so I get that that's you know there's a good part to that but just how do you I imagine you're thinking a lot about this just like how do you make life pleasant and fun and enjoyable as basically an engine manager of say 500s Devons in the future.

Yeah, I can just imagine the performance. You know, it's Devon, you you've done a really great job on your task, but I really would like you to be more proactive in the team meetings. I just Yeah, it's no. So, so what I'd say it's funny actually because this is something that you know in terms of the the wording that we thought a lot about as well is just you know we we've used the term like manager of debons in the past which which of course I think is is a big part of it but but I I think that the the only thing I would point out here is I I do think I I think that the brick layer versus architect is closer to the experience than being a manager because I think a lot of the difficulty of of you know management or or you know the reason that you know that that that that people shy away from it is is more because of you know a lot of the kind of various let's say like there's there's kind of like all of the kind of like the context and the ownership and kind of like the responsibility and stuff and then there's also kind of all of the the the emotional aspects of it, right?

Where I think working with Devon is a little more like just being kind of like having more is like having an interface to to hand off tasks and build tasks, right? And so so you know the the the parallel that I would kind of draw is you know when we invented Python obviously like we we didn't you know it's it's it's like in many ways you know the description of the outlining of tasks it was obviously it was like a different paradigm but but I I think certainly it was it was nowhere near you know what what folks typically think of as kind of like management bureaucracy today right um and I think that with Devon a lot of it is just kind of like it's it's more like finding the right levels of abstraction that you can work with Devon on and and just kind of like finding the workflows that work really well and and and the obvious thing to say here is is it's it's a very you know it's it's like you can always have Devon take a first pass at things, right? And so, you know, you you can take the first p you have Devon take the first pass.

You know, if it's great, you merge it right away. if it's, you know, if it needs some touch-up, you can obvious uh but but but a lot of it is is like it's more about basically like making Devon part of your flow than it is, you know, losing control, which I think is the is the is the main thing that that folks are scared of with with with management. Are you thinking about a manager Devon, like a Devon that manages other Devons? Yeah. Yeah. So So for what it's worth, Devon can start other Devons through the API, right? And so so we we've seen this happen quite a bit of times where naturally if if you have some big task that you want to do like you know devon will do this all the time it'll it'll chunk up and then I'm paralyzed into smaller devons and so it's the kind of thing that you need to give de the credentials to be able to do that. It's not currently something that is kind of like default enabled but uh but I can certainly imagine as time goes on that there's more and more of that devs all the way down.

Yeah. Yeah. I I think the thing that's kind of interesting too is like you know with humans the way I almost say it in in in in technical terms is like there's this coupling of a context and a thread and what I mean by that is is like basically uh each human can only operate you know a single threaded on on the work that they do and they have their set of contexts and then there's other humans obviously who can do other stuff at the same time but they have their own context right with agents one of the cool things is you can have an agent that's doing multiple lines of exploration at once, but is sharing all of the context of everything that they find. And so I I I think that this is very early and and I think we'll see this, but but but folks obviously love to talk about basically like systems and agents communicating with one another. And and I think that uh there will be a lot of new paradigms to build for once once we get there. And it's so interesting what you said about the the decision between having one Devon and only one Devon do all the things and you just tell them things and they kind of fire off jobs versus you have five Devons and they're each doing individual things.

It's such an interesting decision to make. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Okay, two more questions. What's maybe the most counterintuitive thing you've learned so far building Devon that maybe goes against startup wisdom, common startup wisdom? Something I've thought about a lot lately as as we've built this is, you know, this is not my first company. Actually, for a lot of us, it's it's uh it's not our first company. Like I think of of our 26 or 27 people total on the team, like I think 18 of us have started our own company before this. And yeah, like one of the things I think about is, you know, there's actually your point about cliches I think really uh really spoke to me as well, which is there there's kind of the the the really common things which you hear all the time in startups where you're like, you know, you got to move fast or you got to hire great people. It's like, okay, well, obviously you do, you know, like I wasn't planning on not hiring great people, you know, I wasn't planning on going slow. And similarly, it's like, yeah, you really got to build build something that that people want, right?

And there's kind of these like three to five things which are always repeated and they're always the the the common wisdom in startups and I definitely had this this idea as a founder when I was starting initially that all right so those are the kind of the three to five basic things but as you get really deep into it you spend a lot of years into it you know you you learn all of the thousands of other things that you have to learn to be you know to to to build a company right and I think to some extent that's of course true and there's lots of little details that you'll get into with all these different things right? Including um including team building and and product and strategy and engineering decision-m and uh fundraising and uh and sales and and every other component, right? But but I I also realized that as time has gone on more and more I felt like building companies well sometimes just comes down to doing those three to five things just even more than you could possibly expect. And so with us, it's like, you know, it's everyone says we go fast, you know, but it's like, yeah, we we had a hackathon in November, we had another hackathon in December, we started the company officially in January, we like uh got the prototypes out to initial users in February, we did a launch in March, we got our first customers in April.

You know, it's just like basically like truly pushing the pace in every spot where we possibly could has really made a difference for us. And similarly, it's like, yeah, everyone always says, you know, you should hire great people, but I think the the the truth within that truth is basically like you should fight to to all ends basically, you know, to to to to get the folks that you really want to to to bring in. And it's I, you know, one of my favorite stories to share is we had uh we had a candidate who came and interviewed. He was a a junior at MIT. Um, so he was very very young. and we gave him our interview and he he did way better than almost any of the full-time like the the the the full-time candidates that we had ever talked to. And so we said, "Hey, you know, what do you think about taking some time off of school and and working with us and building out Devon? Like we really think you're just going to be able to come in and just have a ton of impact already from day one." And he thought about it for a while.

He came back. He said, "You know what? I like I I'm down. I want to do it, but my parents really want me to to graduate from school and I'm just not sure there's a way to make it work." And so he and and so so we talked to him more and kind of just understood the situation and then um you know and then we we flew to North Carolina uh went straight from the airport to to his parents house had dinner with him and his parents. We talked a lot you know it's a really really nice Gujarati family. We uh kind of gave them some gifts and just talked to them about it and tried to understand, all right, like what what what would it take and what what will we need to make work? And they just said, you know, it's it sounds like a great opportunity, but we really want our son to be able to graduate, right? And um and we talked that through and we figured out a a a setup basically where he could work for us essentially full-time, but then come in for his required classes and and and do what he needed to do to get the diploma basically, but no more than that.

Uh and and we talked that through and then you know we got to a point where where where where everyone was happy with that and then you know went straight back to the airport and flew right back basically and that was you know that was it was the the first and only time that I've ever been in North Carolina. It was a great trip you know and it's the kind of thing where it's like you know hiring great people is one thing but truly just never never giving up and and and really giving it everything that you can to to make it work for for people who who really makes sense for to be on the team. you know, he's been with us on the team for for over a year now, and he's been an incredible, incredible engineer, and we wouldn't be here without him. And similarly, we had someone else who was again really, really talented candidate, you know, did amazingly well, very young, and and had a lot of great offers at a lot of other companies. And, you know, we were talking to them about, you know, he he wanted to start his own company someday as well.

And we were talking to him about, you know, certainly, you know, a lot of the obvious things which are kind of like having him meet our investors or work with, you know, get to do work with customers or see a lot of these other components so that when the time came, you know, that that he would have all the experience he needed to start his own company. But the other thing that, you know, that one of one of the other things that was big is like he really, you know, he he he was talking with a lot of great companies already. He didn't want to burn any bridges. And so we actually worked with him and and basically hand wrote all of his rejection responses to each of the other companies and kind of worked with him on it to say like you know here's how you should say it in a way that's you know going to come off as like you know that that you really did appreciate the time with them and that you obviously you know you want to remain close with them and stay in touch and and it was the kind of thing obviously where it's it's like look obviously it's our job is to make sure that he's happy enough that that he he doesn't want to leave anytime in the near future but I I think it's the kind of thing where you know the the way that you put together a really really great team is by is by really what's what's by by by fighting for for what's right for them too.

So wow those are incredible stories and it makes so real these you know as you say cliches hire the best people like this is what it sounds like to hire the best people this is what it takes. Yeah. No and I was just say yeah it's just like you know a lot of things Yeah. We've we've we've fought very hard to just kind of like Yeah. like reimagine things from the ground up because it's you know a lot of it really is just thinking about like yeah like where where do we think the technology is going over the next five to 10 years and you know what is the the place that we want to have in that future. So wonder if people are going to be fighting for the best Devon someday there's like 10x Devons I'll give you you know overtime pay benefits you know free healthcare and everything and then the Devon's like Devons like Magic the Gathering cards. Yeah. And then just going back to your three to five things. So essentially, this is incredible advice. Essentially, it's like you always hear, hire the best people, move fast, build things people want.

Yeah. Build build something people want. You know, stay as close as possible to your customers, right? And and and then I think the other thing is is just always think about where things are going, not where they are today. I feel like those are kind of like the the five things which is you know especially in AI with things moving so fast and there's so much great talent you know I feel like a lot of these are even more true where it's kind of like uh you know it's not just thinking about where things are going to be in 10 years it's like thinking about what's going to happen next week you know and and and it's it's obviously things are moving very quickly and it is very hard to predict but you really have to you you really have to be very uh very rigorous with yourself I'd say about like thinking through those things and and and evaluating all all of the the kind of the decisions that you make in that lens. And staying focused is the big takeaway to me here is like it ends up feeling like there's a thousand things you should do, but it's always these five things.

Yeah. Scott, we covered a lot of ground. We went through every question I had, which is great. Is there anything else that you want to share? Anything else you want to leave your listeners with? Maybe a final nugget or something really you want to double down on that we said uh before we let you go. The biggest thing that comes to mind for me is, you know, there's there's a lot of different perceptions about AI, right? There's there's I think every basically every emotion under the sun right now, you know, there's there's a lot of fear, for example. There's also a lot of skepticism, and you know, we're very skeptical types as well, and we always want to kind of try it ourselves to to really see it and believe it. I I think the main thing that that comes to mind for me is, you know, I I I'm honestly really optimistic about what we're building here with AI and, you know, not just with code and with Devon, but but but the the the whole space and and everything that's getting done. And I think one of the cool things that that is is really actively happening is just the ability for everyone to multiply themselves and and that's that's how we've always thought about it.

It's how we've thought about what we're building and and it's, you know, I think the there's a lot more to do out there in the world. You know, I'm not too worried about us running out of things that to do. And from that lens, it's it's I I think the the thing that we've always been most excited about is is how can we all do more? I hear you, Scott. Well, with that optimism, we've reached our very exciting lightning round. Are you ready? Yeah, let's do it. Okay, here we go. First question, what are two or three books that you find yourself recommending most to other people in terms of non-fiction? I I think uh uh for for for folks in startups, I think one of the things that I've really enjoyed is just learning and understanding the history of Silicon Valley. And there's such, you know, it's all all these things that we think about, somebody invented them. I I mean, it's it's one of the great realizations I feel like is like, you know, it's somebody invented the idea of a seed route, right? Somebody invented the idea of venture capital. Somebody invented the idea of like product market fit, you know, and all of these different principles that we talk about.

And and so for that there there's book called The Power Law by Sebastian Malib, which I I really like. It basically is just kind of like a yeah, a tour of of many of the the great businesses and the great products that have been built over the last um 60 70 years in Silicon Valley, which I really love. I think in terms of fiction, it's a I actually have always really liked the The Great Gatsby by F. Scott Fitzgerald. as one of my personal favorites as a fiction book. Do you have a favorite recent movie or TV show that you've really enjoyed? I have to admit I have not watched I I can't think of a single movie or TV show that I have watched in the last while. So, I I'm sure there's I I I'm looking forward to to watching a lot of great ones post AGI. That's got to be in the trailer. That's great. I like that. Uh, and that show just shows how hard you're working, just how much it is going on and how fast everything's moving. Do you have a favorite product you've recently discovered that you really love?

Could be an app, could be something physical, could be toothbrush. One I would say is uh, you know, I I have I got an Aura frame recently. It's just like, you know, a frame that shows photos and you can show a new photo every day or every hour or, you know, every 15 minutes or whatever you like. And I've actually I've I've really enjoyed it a lot. I think it's a it's a it's a nice way to just have basically just have picture frame with memories that come up. And then the other thing I would say as like a general purpose thing, you know, I I it's it's not particularly new, but I would say I think AirPods are actually extremely well built and welldesigned. I realize now that it's like I I basically use them for all sort, you know, I'm taking calls on a walk and I'm using AirPods. I'm I'm obviously I'm like doing work at my computer at my desk. I'm plugged into AirPods and and it's it works quite well honestly for for a lot of different situations and it's it's it's they're very comfortable that they're very consistent. Yeah, I'm going to double click on the or double down on the Aura Frame.

I also I got one of these for my mom and my mother-in-law and they're so great for just like sharing photos of your kids with your family and people have like you know they've heard of picture like digital picture picture frames but the Aura just does it really well and it's really easy to add photos and they're just really nice looking. You can imagine, you know, not that long from now, we'll have the aura frame except it, you know, studio giblifies every photo that you have in it and then, you know, it's a Yeah. Or just imagines things you've done that are really cool. Sweet life. Yeah. Cool. And it's a it's a r, I believe, is how you spell it. Folks want to check it out. We'll link to it. Not affiliated. Okay. Uh, two more questions. Do you have a favorite life motto that you often come back to and find useful in work or in life? Yeah. You know, something I've thought about a lot is a lot of the a lot of the proverbs out there are actually contradictions, right? It's like, you know, birds of a feather and then you also have like opposites attract, right?

You have all, you know, and it's kind of funny because it's you you feel that both of them are true and often they both are true and a lot of it is about like understanding why. And one of those that that I feel like especially in the world of startups that I think about like all the time is I think it is very important to be focused and driven and to really kind of maximize your potential and then at the same time it's also very important to not let your own personal emotion get tied up in your success or failure you know and I think especially with startups because there's always ups and downs honestly even in the most success uccessful companies ever like it is it is just like you know it's it's a rocky road there's there's a lot that happens and a lot that that goes down and I think one of the things which I've I I've thought a lot about is that somehow it's you know you you really want to do your best and put your put everything you can into it and and and do everything you can to to to basically you want to put it all out on the field you know but at the same time you want to be okay with with with both wins and losses, right?

And you want to be able to to to to to to move on and go into the next one with each time. And and something Yeah. I mean, it's it's funny, but what I have found personally is that obviously it's uh you know, it's it's really important for for your your own emotional state and mental state to be able to do that. And we've had lots of mistakes. And you know I've had a a lot of you know I had my first company which is obviously which was cool but but you know there were a lot of like tricky spots there and then over the course of cognition I mean it's been feels like it's been already like eight years compressed since like one year and you know it's still going at that pace but but it's it's somehow it also actually makes you more successful. I I think too, you know, it's it's like you you are just more able to to give it your best and and to do the things that will lead to success if you're not tying it up in your own personal worth. So that is so interesting. I just had a podcast recording recently where with an executive coach Jerry Colona that I think will come out before this, might be after this that he that's one of his big pieces of advice and it's a it's a very Buddhist approach of just not a clinking and attaching to to to an outcome.

Yeah. Okay. Final question. I'm curious if there's a story here, but we could keep it short. Is there a story behind Devon as the name and or or is there another contender for Devon being the agent? Devon was the name from pretty early on. We were interested, you know, we were working on coding agents from the beginning and you know, my co-founders are Steven and Walden, for example, and we had this idea. All right, let's get started and you know, let's not uh let's let's try to kind of like uh kind of like expand the the box as much as we can. to have everyone kind of think out of the box and do their own thing and let's have everyone do their own thing first for a bit and then we'll kind of like consolidate and take everything that we've learned and so you know Walden made a virtual you know developer version of him which was called Dev Walden and then Steven made one of him which was called Dev Steven and you know we had all these and then and then we were kind of combining it all into one thing and we're like okay you know it's it's Devon and that was the thing and so so Devon was like yeah Devon stuck for us like quite early on I would say one thing which we did have a big decision on though actually is what the what the image of Devon would be.

And so, as folks know, there's the the hexagons. And then people might have seen this more recently, but there's actually also an otter like a little otter with a laptop in in its lap uh uh that that is that is Devon as well. And and we had this debate over over what to go with and what not to go with and stuff, but it was uh it's been a while now, but somehow we still we still have both the the hexagons and the otter. You skipped over where the Devon is like. Did you just have just Oh, so Devman is is it's it's it's a dev. Yeah. And and so it's kind of like when we were consolidating all the names, it just kind of seemed clear then that this would be the the universal dev that we all like to work with. Yeah. Incredible. Scott, this was so much fun. Oh my god, I learned a ton, which is always a really good sign. Two final questions. Where can folks find you slashdevon anything else you want to point them to? And how can listeners be useful to you? Awesome. Yeah. No, we're at uh we're at app.dev.ai.

Um um and uh you know you can you can find us as well on Twitter or a lot of other social media. Um we'd we'd obviously love to hear any feedback you have about the Devon product. Like there's there's so much to figure out and I I think the like like I said I think we're all still like 20 steps away from really the the future of software engineering. And so so it really means a lot to to hear what folks think uh about the product as they're trying it out. And so please please let us know anytime if there's things that we can do to make it better. Scott, thank you so much for being here. Thank you so much for having me. I had a great time. Me, too. Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
