---
title: "Mercado Libre: 18k engineers, 30k deploys a day, & their own fleet of planes | Sebastian Barrios"
date: "2025-06-08"
type: "podcast"
guest: "Sebastian Barrios"
channel: "Lenny's Podcast"
description: "Sebastian Barrios was the longtime head of product and engineering at Mercado Libre, the largest company in Latin America—valued at over $100 billion and home to more than 100,000 employees. There, he"
word_count: 15375
youtube_id: "puY_dxVKEwU"
---

Steve Jobs called you one day. I'm walking in the street and and I get a phone and a blocked number. I was super young, by the way, at the time. I think I was like 16. Pick up. I said, "Well, uh, hi, it's Sebastian. This is Steve from Apple. I need to talk to you about your app. We're not going to be able to have it on the app store." I actually pushed back a little bit. I told I read all the rules of the app store. He told me, "Check again cuz we just added a new rule." At 19, you built an app that became the number one app in 19 countries. It absolutely exploded. I actually got contacted by a lot of different companies like multinationals, governments saying like, "Well, you have the number one app. We want you to build an app for us." You oversee something like 18,000 developers. We do around 30,000 deployments per day. We deliver over 5 million packages per day. You're really big on not creating a big distinction between engineering and product. It's hard to separate where engineering stops and product begins. And we don't feel like just having a title should determine who is the owner.

Is there anything else might be helpful for folks either about how you operate as a human morning routine. We were raised in a very intensely independent way. My mother mainly the analogy that she used is that she wanted to train us like spies. She would drop us in the middle of the city, Mexico City. It would be like you have to get back home. You have to like know public transit or ask someone for help and basically solve problems. Just go and get things done. Today my guest is Sebastian Barios. Sebos as most people know him is currently senior vice president of engineering at Roblox. He's also a longtime head of product and engineering at Marcato Libre. Marcato Libre might be the biggest and most interesting company that you have never heard of. And Sebus might also be the most interesting product leader that you've never heard of. Marcato Libre is currently the most valuable company in Latin America, valued at over $100 billion, which also makes them one of the 150 most valuable companies on the planet. They also have one of the largest engineering teams on the planet with over 18,000 engineers operating in 18 countries.

They deploy an unprecedented 30,000 times a day. The company owns their own trucks and planes. They deliver over 5 million packages a day. At one point, eBay tried to acquire them. They ended up acquiring PayPal instead. Now they are larger than both eBay and PayPal combined. Also, just wait till you hear the stories about Sebos's early life, including how his mom trained him like a spy, why he only drinks water, no coffee or tea or juice, why he doesn't listen to music, and also why Steve Jobs personally called him when he was 17 years old, telling him that they are booting his app from the App Store and forever changing the App Store policies as a result. A huge thank you to Christopher Lazarus, Oscar Mullen, and Farhan Thou for suggesting topics for this conversation. If you enjoy this podcast, don't forget to subscribe and follow it in your favorite podcasting app or YouTube. Also, if you become an annual subscriber of my newsletter, you get a year free of Bolt, Linear, Superhum, Notion, Perplexity, Granola, and more. Check it out at lenniesnewsletter.com and click bundle. With that, I bring you Sebastian Barios. This episode is brought to you by Merge.

Product leaders, yes, like you cringe when they hear the word integration. They're not fun for you to scope, build, launch, or maintain. And integrations probably aren't what led you to product work in the first place. Lucky for you, the folks at Merge are obsessed with integrations. Their single API helps SAS companies launch over 200 product integrations in weeks, not quarters. Think of merge like plaid but for everything B2B SAS. Organizations like RAMP, Datada and electric use merge to access their customers accounting data to reconcile bill payments, file storage data to create searchable databases and their product or HRIS data to autoprovision and deprovision access for their customers employees. And yes, if you need AI ready data for your SAS product, then merge is the fastest way to get it. So, want to solve your organization's integration dilemma once and for all? Book and attend a meeting at merge.dev/lenny and receive a $50 Amazon gift card. That's merge.dev/lenny. This episode is brought to you by Vanta. When it comes to ensuring your company has top-notch security practices, things get complicated fast. Now you can assess risk, secure the trust of your customers, and automate compliance for SOCK 2, ISO 27,01, HIPPA, and more with a single platform, Vanta.

Vanta's market leading trust management platform helps you continuously monitor compliance alongside reporting and tracking risk. Plus, you can save hours by completing security questionnaires with Vanta AI. Join thousands of global companies that use Vant to automate evidence collection, unify risk management, and streamline security reviews. Get $1,000 off Vanta when you go to vanta.com/lenny. That's venta.com/lenny. Sebus, thank you so much for being here and welcome to the podcast. Well, super happy to be here. Thank you for hosting me. This is the first time that you're doing a uh a major let's call it major podcast. I think you can call it major podcast. You can be proud of what you've done. I appreciate that. Um so let me just start with a stat that I think is going to blow a lot of people's minds. You oversee something like 18,000 developers. Is that right? Is that the right number? That is the right number. Uh 18,000 and climbing. Uh I just put specify that they don't report all directly to me. We can talk about how the company is structured, but yes, I lead the the technology team that basically powers all of what they do.

Yeah, I think essentially you guys are in the top 10 of most of most engineers at a company. You're like above Salesforce and Tik Tok, Nvidia, Adobe, Uber, OpenAI. That's right. I think you have to go into like big tech or huge banks uh to to get a larger number. Okay. So a lot of people listening to this have not heard of Marcato Libre. A lot of listeners are in the US, other parts of the country outside of Latin America. Give us just like a brief explanation of what does Marcato Libre do and then give us a few more stats that will blow people's minds to the scale of this business at this point. Happy to. Happy to. To you can think of us as a completely vertically integrated e-commerce marketplace. Oh that that means uh buying and selling any product you can think of. And the vertically integrated part means we have our own distribution network. We have our own airplanes. We have our own uh trucks. Uh we have to do all the technology and coordination uh behind that. But even or in addition to to that, we also have a very large fintech operation.

The the two sides of the business are actually almost the same size. So we also offer accounts, we offer credit cards, we offer loans, uh all of that sort of like integrated with each other into uh what we call an an an ecosystem. Okay. And I saw a stat that you guys plan to have over 100,000 employees by the end of this year. That's right. There's a lot of uh operations that need to happen uh for for for all those packages to to be delivered. You asked about some uh fun statistics uh specifically with with deliveries. We deliver over 5 million packages per day or items. So, we visit most of Latin America. We have some very cool visualizations where if you track the routes of our our trucks and and and delivery vans and and whatnot, you sort of like paint a picture of Latin America, which is pretty fun. Uh we obviously operate in in major cities, but we have very very uh large capillarity and and reach all the different corners of of of Latin America. Okay. A couple more stats that you didn't mention. Uh you guys are valued over hundred billion dollars.

It's a large company. We don't focus on the stock price. Uh not much. Uh but yes uh 100 billion even more so now. Depends on on how the market's feeling and and uh what what the global news are. But yes uh one of the top valued companies on the on the planet. uh we have around 100 million uh users, customers, sellers, people interacting in the in the platform and as you mentioned uh one of the larger engineering and product building teams on the planet. Hopefully people now get the sense of like holy this is uh there's a lot to learn here. There's kind of two buckets to the way I want to approach this conversation. One is just really unique interesting ways you all operate and how you scale a business like this, how you build product. The other is just uh you as a human are really interesting and there's a lot of stories I've heard that I want to talk about, but I'm going to save that for for for next. Let's start with how you all operate. So, one of the So, I talked to a lot of people that work with you that work at Marcato Libre.

One of the themes that came up again and again is you you're really big on not creating a big distinction between engineering and product. It's essentially one team for you guys. Talk about just how that works specifically. Just like what does that mean and why that's so important to you? for me and for me Libé, it's hard to separate where sort of like engineering stops and product begins. We do have a small product organization. There are people in medical that have the the the product manager title, but the the ratio is much smaller than any other tech company that that that you would think of. And the way we we think about it is like that. We we we're not going to determine who's going to own the product just based on the title. is going to be based on who's the best for that role. No. And and turns out that for us and in the majority of the cases, it's the engineering leaders, it's the the tech leads, it's the the the people that can understand what's technically possible and they're also good about okay, what are the business needs? What are the user needs?

What are the users doing? How am I going to measure that? No. And and combine that into a single role. So to make this even really even clear, you have 18,000ish developers. How many people have the PM title? So I think it's less than 1,000. I think that would make uh like 5% uh where in other companies maybe you have 10 20 30% even more at other companies. So two follow-ups here. One is just why why do you think operating this way is more effective in in the way in your business? And what do you need to hire engineers in a different way for them to succeed in this way where they're basically playing the PM role? This works because you want to be as close to the problem as possible and that probably works. Being as close to the technology as possible, being as close to the users as possible. You can have it with two different people that have to interact and and coordinate and that obviously works as well, right? Like I'm not saying this is the the only way to do it. Clearly there are a lot more examples. Maybe we are actually the the exception and and it would be hard to replicate anywhere else.

But if you're able to have that whole context in a single mind in a single person that can then deliver that vision to the team, I think it leads to great products that users are going to love and and and enjoy. In terms of hiring, we do in in the interview process sort of like test for product skills, but we mainly do test for for engineering skills. I think it's worth being honest about like we have a strong bias for uh engineering for for for being technical for being deep into the the details. There's not a lot of tolerance for being in a meeting and getting asked the questions like well I need to check with this person to understand the details because you know I'm not sure what technology we're using like that that would not fly. No. Uh so the there is a bias towards the the tech side of it and then once we once you're inside Malib we'll probably get to know you a lot more and and it'll be very clear if you have the product inclination or if you should uh if you would be more comfortable just with the engineering.

What's really interesting about this is a lot of companies start with no PMs and they're like we never need PMs. We're we're just going to be engineers leading product. It's going to be amazing. And then usually eventually people these engineers realize I don't want to be doing all this YM work like I just want to code I want to build what am I in meetings all day writing specs and it's interesting you guys have scaled to a hundred billion dollar market cap 18,000 people on the product team developers and still you're working in this way it's really rare what do you think has allowed you to operate this way at this scale that maybe other companies can't? Yeah, I think it it it's also a top- down uh thing where uh a lot of the leadership is very technical. They're they're uh very into the the product. They're also very into the business, into the numbers, into the the the details. Uh it's it's amazing to be on the sea level meetings and and the kind of questions, the kind of level of of attention. I know founder mode is now uh like a term that's that's there but the company has been operating like that for for a while now know where uh discussions will even go as deep as okay why are we using that copy that's way too many words uh it's not clear hey what was why is this pixel here where uh we could use that space for something a lot more useful and these are literally conversations at the at the sea level no asking okay how does this work for users know when when you present a feature And here I'm going to stereotype other companies.

No, it might not be the case, but my understanding is anytimes, okay, how much revenue can we get from this new feature or or what's the metric that that's going to move? For Marcos, our SEO, the first question is always, okay, how's the user going to experience this? Show me the flow. Show me the user experience. Are they understanding it? Show me the metrics that people are actually liking what we're what we're doing. putting the users before the the the revenue obviously turns into revenue in the future in the in the long term which is what you're looking for. So again, I I think the the the the top down version of that uh maintaining the the culture and being able to like select for the top of the top talent uh in in a whole region, no in multiple countries. I think it's what's allowed that to to happen. And the the the business as you said like there's a lot of technology, right? Like you need to do the routing for all the the the buses, the the trucks, the planes, the distribution centers. do routing for picking items within the the the distribution centers, risk, uh content moderation, search, uh robotics.

No, there's really long list of of really fun initiatives that that we're working on. Uh they're all very technical and turn into value for our users. I can't help but ask, how does AI impact this way of working where engineers are doing more and more of the PM work? Uh is that just accelerating that further? or is there anything you can share about just how AI is changing the way you all operate? It's a great question because you probably always hear it from from the other side know like okay now people who are more product oriented are not going to need engineers as much. So for for for us the the the change is accelerating what people can do on both sides but I don't think there's any competition and and again we we we don't see a line between product and and engineering as strongly as as other companies. So I'm extremely happy when uh someone who's more product oriented comes in and can actually start developing more stuff on their own even just demos I think for for we can talk about the AI hype uh a little bit in the in the future but it's definitely great to to to make demos to actually turn ideas into something that you can touch that something that that you can see designed no and and and seeing uh a lot more people enable to to do that I think is just accelerating everything we do on on the actual coding side of course it started as like advanced autocomplete and now you have agentic frameworks and cursor and windsurf openi just made a an acquisition clearly it's sort of like a a big shift in in the way we we develop technology it's not at the point where it can sort of like do anything and everything and and security compliance all the different things that that that go around actually turning uh a demo or a product into something that that's going to reach the production or or or the market uh takes time.

But I would say we're we're we're taking it even further. We always like to think in in terms of platforms. Uh it's one of the reasons why we've been able to scale the team so much. We have a great internal development platform that takes care of a lot of scaling, security, building, testing, compliance. Uh so so developers and and teams can just focus on adding value. And we're taking the same approach with AI. We developed an internal platform called Verie uh that basically abstracts away a lot of the complexities around okay where are you going to get the data how is it going to be authorized uh and and that in itself has been evolving as the models become more more capable now you can have more it's called agents agentic frameworks uh things taking action taking over longer tasks uh and we we're seeing great results with skipping code entirely. No, I think it's it's a it's a fun one where the the the prompt or or the what you actually want the product to do is everything you you tell the system. We came up with ways to use our existing code. No, so it's not like there's no code in in any of of what I'm talking about, but we basically can extract the functionality of every single one of our microservices and then we can have agents build and uh use different parts of of of different services and create new features for users end to end with a UI.

So that that's something that is still experimental obviously uh but it's happening and and it's just going to accelerate as the the the models get better. So we literally have things that are taking existing code. So you you it's not like code doesn't exist, but you don't have to write any new code. There's a lot of functionality that we already have on the platform and you can combine different parts of it of it and uh turn it into a new feature or product without any intervention from from any code extra code. That is very cool. So essentially you have all these APIs and microservices and your agents can just use what already exists to add new features. Exactly. And and if you extend it a little more, you could even reach a point where like UIs and and and and apps are sort of like entirely generated. No worries. So like, okay, these are like all the things that you can do inside Mara Li. You can buy stuff, you can get a credit card, you can move money around. Uh and then have like a completely personalized UI for for user predicting what are you going to do next and then just having that as the main screen.

Maybe you have like other screens obviously that that that allow you to do everything, but it's uh uh an exciting future. I think we're we're going to see a lot more uh automated uh UI. Wow. Okay. I'm going to try to resist just making every conversation about AI. So, let's leave that aside and maybe we'll come back to it, but let's zoom out a little bit and I want to hear other key or very unique ways of working that you have figured out that allow you to operate this team of 18,000 developers and continue to ship great product. So, if you had to pick like I don't know two or three key ways of working, what would those be? One big one uh it's a cliche but it's true is uh the the fear of failure. No. uh we actually empower our teams to to to make mistakes like no one's going to get fired for uh releasing something that uh didn't work in the sense that maybe the market was not ready or uh we had the wrong idea on on on where had to implement. Obviously, there's a lot less tolerance for, okay, bad quality and it failed because the product wasn't good or or or was going offline or or uh those kinds of uh failures are are much less tolerated.

Uh but we do encourage our teams to take a lot of risks on what we should actually be working on. Uh we also let them be very independent. I think it goes hand in hand. So there for example we don't operate with OKRs uh where everything just like trickles down into what every team is is supposed to do. We have very high level objectives on where we want the the the company to be and they're not even that long term. It's not like we have a 10-year plan and and I think in in a market that's changing so much even before AI know this is a extremely competitive market with very dynamic regulations and in multiple countries. So it's it's it's hard to say like okay this is a plan for 10 years and these are the OKRs and now everyone go into your teams and implement the specific features that that are going to point to that. The way we run it is these are the objectives. These are maybe some of the new businesses or areas where we would like to explore but everything else is up to the teams. Oh we we just cascade the the main vision of of where the company's going.

And there's a lot of uh another cliche freedom and responsibility saying like okay do whatever literally whatever you think is best for uh our users for for the company for for what we want to uh accomplish. There's going to be tight feedback loops on that to also make sure everyone's pointing in the same direction but you can't sort of like be uh telling 18,000 people exactly what they should be working on every day and and and expect that to to work. So there's a fun combination of what can you delegate, what can you not delegate. Uh we're also I think very hands-on wherever we can be. So the the we can't be on every single detail but in the projects that we feel are most important. The whole leadership team goes extremely deep know into working with the team uh understanding what the restrictions are, what the what's working, what's not working and and and and pushing the the team forward. So I think that's uh that's that's probably the main one. Uh we also talked about putting users before revenue. No, I think that's another uh big one that that that we've liked. Uh and there's another tricky aspect of it because life is trade-offs.

No, but so you say, okay, let's be very distributed on on what the teams are are going to be working on. Then you can end up with a product that has great parts, but once you put them all together, it's horrible and it's a it sucks. People don't like it. Uh so you also need a a mix of okay uh this is the holistic vision uh this is what we want to accomplish this is what probably the end product is going to look like and then you can build the the the features uh and there's no like one rule that basically applies to to all projects there there are times where you can have more freedom there are times where you do require uh a lot more sort of like yeah one vision of of of where things are going so I think that's that's another important one what else we like to observe users more than talk to users. No, you always hear uh talk to users, uh listen to users, they're going to tell you what they want, what they need. Uh that works sometimes. Uh we've seen that what works best is just to observe them.

Whether that's literally like user research sessions and just seeing what uh what people are doing with the with the product. Uh, I'm sure this has happened to you and to many people that that listen to your show and and and uh you cringe at all the assumptions that that are being crushed before your eyes as as someone types in their email and uh their name in the same field because your field said email, name. So you could either have the email or the username and people say, "Well, I I'll write both because that's what they're asking of me." So a lot of examples like this where observing users is uh extremely valuable. I think those are the ones that come to mind. Okay, this is a great Let me follow up on a couple of these. So what I'm hearing is there's a lot of independence and kind of distribution of of ownership where teams can kind of go off and build their own stuff. As you pointed out, uh it's important to have a vision and some sense of what success looks like and make sure everyone's rowing in the same direction. Just going a level deeper, how do you actually operationalize that sort of way of operating where teams can do their own thing, but you also share vision?

Like how often do you update that vision? How do you communicate it? And then how do you check in with teams uh to make sure they're heading towards the right in the right direction? We don't do anything magical there. We we do a lot of design reviews, I think, is the term that that they would probably use in and or product reviews in the in the US where it's like, okay, this is what we're working on. This is what it looks like. this is what all the pieces together are doing and and and working or not working. Uh and there the the leadership team is extremely candid and honest on their feedback, always cordial uh and and uh uh a happy uh work environment, but definitely on the side of of of being honest about what's working, what's not working. Uh whether the the vision was mistaken as well. There are many times where we've uh thought this was the right direction. Turns out it's not and we can uh pivot very quickly into a a new thing. Um so no no big secrets. Oh, just uh there there maybe the only secret is you can't check absolutely everything when you have 18,000 people.

Uh so to give you another crazy uh statistic, we do around 30,000 deployments per day of like changes to production. uh 30,000 uh PRs a day. PRs, deploys. Yeah. Like changes, no changes to to to a system. It can be configuration changes. It can be uh database updates or or whatever. Like things that that that change. So there's no way uh anyone can check what those 30,000 changes are are are doing. That's that's more than one per developer. Yeah. Yeah. Some of them are automated changes uh as well. Uh but yeah, we we we have a very uh high speed of uh of execution and uh yeah, it's uh quite fun to to be around something that that's changing that rapidly and and that dramatically. Um we again have many different businesses, many different competitors in in different businesses who operate at worldclass whether it's finance, whether it's uh e-commerce. Uh, I would even say Brazil is probably one of the most competitive markets on the planet for for e-commerce. You have local players, you have international players, you have players from Asia that are even funded by video game uh revenue and and and profits.

Um, so it's a great dynamic market to to be around. I like that optimism, that way of framing it. Well, we we like competition uh especially when you're competing with with sort of like the top of the top and uh it pushes you to be better as well. This point you made earlier about the being the the top company in a market is really interesting. I was I was wondering if I wanted to come to this, but I think it's interesting to talk about for a bit. So, I've had a few uh product leaders from companies like Revolute N26. Uh, I haven't had Intercom on yet, but the co-founders coming on soon. And a theme across all those conversations about how they've built such a strong product team that pumps out incredible product leaders is they're the top startup in their market. And it's just an interesting thread of just how much power comes with being the most successful company in a market and just like the cycle of success that comes from that in terms of hiring amazing people. Is there anything else there that you think might be interesting to folks that are I don't know that want to try to do something like this other than just build a successful business?

I think it applies to to many things and and you often also hear like well you're not in the Bay Area uh you're not in the the pinnacle of of and the capital of of technology. So how can you build amazing technology? No. And and there are advantages as well. I think you you would find the same with like you mentioned a bunch of companies that that have experienced that where okay you if you can be the the top in a region where there's great talent no and like by statistical definition there's great talent everywhere it's it's probably follows a a probabilistic distribution so it's everywhere a lot of it does flow into the the the US and it's absolutely true that there's a a very high concentration of talent outside specifically companies. I think that's probably the the one thing you don't get outside of uh of the big tech hubs where okay you uh are the top company but you are the only top company and I'm exaggerating a bit right there are great companies uh throughout the world and in Latin America and you have unicorns and there are outliers uh but the truth is you're setting your own path and you're setting your your own map and uh the setting your own destination and you're building things that have not been built before and in a different way.

And it's it's very fun. Uh that's for sure. By the way, I'll correct. I I said Intercom. I don't think I think they're technically a US-based company, but I think a lot of it a lot of their team is in Ireland or was originally in Ireland, just to be clear there. And then there's other companies like Canva and Atlassian. I feel like there's this really like what I'm taking away from this is if you want to build a company outside of the US, you need to be the best in that market to take advantage of this cycle that happens where the best come to you. Yeah, maybe you could say you have to be the best eventually. Oh, if you want to like have that flywheel running, uh it's hard to start and be the the best uh and the biggest, you know, when when when you're just getting started. Uh but I think just knowing that there's great talent everywhere and and that it is possible to attract them uh without being in a specific tech hub maybe even empower you know to like okay I want to start a a company here. I think we can also be honest that it will be harder.

Oh it is easier to recruit and and and build a team where you're in a place where the high density is all over. Uh another thing that happens to us is that many people try to recruit from us. uh and that's something that we have to deal with. Uh but if you actually get that uh flywheel going uh it becomes into a clear advantage. I want to come back to something you said that I think might be there might be something more there which is around reducing the fear of failure. A lot of companies and leaders say that and they're like yeah yeah we let people fail totally no problem. But then in reality you know they have performance reviews they got to show impact they have to show success. Is there something you do to actually create that sort of culture where failing is okay? Like what can people learn from you to actually create that sort of culture? I think that question is even more on like how does culture work at at at any company especially at at at ours? No, it's very clear that it's not what you write on the walls or what you put on on on your website.

Uh from from what I've learned and what we've seen, it's something it's what you do. No, it's it's what the leadership team is is doing is how I get my performance reviews, how I get either praise or not praise and and in public. No, what are the acceptable errors? What are the not acceptable errors? Uh because again, if we have uh a system outage, no. Uh it's obviously unacceptable. Like that's not the the the kind of error that that we're going for. we're going for. Well, you took a a risk in a very bold vision and it turns out it was not the right path. You're not going to get penalized for that. Uh you might even get a a promotion and and those messages that that you send are extremely powerful. No. And um who has what title, who gets promoted, who doesn't get promoted, uh who is is getting what praise in public, no? um what announcements are made on new products. How do we talk about things that that that didn't work? No, one very clear one is like, okay, this didn't work and and and yes, we like risk with the person that led the project was fired.

It's like, well, then you're not sort of like living what you are uh what you have on your website. No. So, uh I think it it's not more complicated than that. You need to live it. You need to show it. And uh you also need to like have people that will take in that culture and also propagate it into their teams. That's also the way it scales uh in the in the organization. But it definitely starts with the the top management of the of the company and again what they are focused on uh what messages they're sending to to the rest of the of the company. They participate in the product reviews. they they are very aware uh at least of all the big features that that we launch and the the feedback is direct and uh clear. Today's episode is brought to you by LinkedIn ads. One of the hardest and also most important parts of B2B marketing is reaching the right people. I am constantly getting ads for products that I will never buy. And I almost feel sorry for the money that these companies are spending pitching me on their spend management software or some kind of cyber security solution that my one-man business just does not need.

When you're ready to reach the right professionals, use LinkedIn ads. LinkedIn has grown to a network of over 1 billion professionals, including 130 million decision makers. And that's where it stands apart from other ad platforms. You can target your ad buyers by job title, industry, company, role, seniority, skills, even company revenue. All the professionals that you need to reach in one place. Stop wasting budget on the wrong audience and start targeting the right professionals only on LinkedIn ads. LinkedIn will even give you $100 credit on your next campaign so that you can try it for yourself. Just go to linkedin.com/podlenny. That's linkedin.com/podlenny. terms and conditions apply only on LinkedIn ads. You talked about this idea of being direct and honest, but also maintaining a cordial environment. Talk about just that balance in the culture you've created of being direct. Kind of this idea of radical cander is what I'm hearing. Yeah. So, the the the book became very very popular. No. Uh the book radical cander. Yeah. Yeah. It's a Oh, awesome. We had Kim Scott on the podcast. It's a great book and uh the concept is is also great. I would even say it's even more important in uh Latin America uh in some Asian countries where you have uh a culture and I'm Latin American so I can talk a little bit about stereotypes without it uh uh becoming uh offensive uh especially ones that are true where there's a lot of hierarchy and okay I'm not going to tell my boss that he's wrong uh we're just going to do this because he said so or she said so this is the way it works and and this is the way it's always been done.

So that's the way we're we're we're going to do it. Uh I don't want to stand out. No, these are sort of like cultural stereotypes that we are extremely aware of when we when we operate. Uh people are extremely polite in Latin America as well. I don't know if you if you're traveled, everyone will smile at you. It will be very hard for someone to say no to something. Uh even like meetings or whatnot or yeah, yes, but later. Yes, but later and and and they actually uh mean no. I think there Argentina uh and other countries but Argentina where the company was was founded is is an exception to that where people are uh very direct. Uh I will tell my boss if he if he's wrong. Uh it's something that I love about the company and we've been able to sort of like export that and also select for people that will actually uh behave in and in in that way. But yes, we're extremely direct uh extremely candid uh we're honest uh about what's working, what's what's not working. And it's a it's it's a learning that every uh like manager or leader goes through.

It's like, well, I don't want to hurt people's feelings, you know? Uh I want to be friends with everyone. Uh I think we all start on on on that path and eventually you realize that people like the the honesty they might not like it in the very short term or in the medium term sometimes even uh but my experience has been if you're coming from uh a place of honesty again if you're sort of like not insulting anyone or or or kind of like crossing a line where where things uh feel personal uh people appreciate the the feedback people like growing people like If if you have your performance review and everything comes back positive, what are you going to do with that? I was like, well, he's doing great. Uh, everything's perfect. Thank you uh for being a part of the company. Oh, no. Like, what could I be doing better? What's not working? It's also a skill to separate that from from your person. No, we do have situations where uh I've had to have conversations on like well you got this strong feedback but but it's on the product you know it's like maybe on on on the vision that we are pursuing or on the execution uh that their work has nothing to do like with you we can we can go out and and and and have lunch uh and and uh we'll still be uh cordial and and uh but this uh idea of well the companies should be like families and and it's not true because you you behave extremely different with with your family.

There's no expectation of high performance. uh I mean in some families obviously uh and in some cases even in in in mine we can talk about that but it's always from from a different perspective whereas I think the analogy that we use much more often is of a high performance sports team where it's very clear where the line is between yes we can have fun together and we should as we work on on interesting things but when you uh are talking about work and and the performance and and what's working what's not working the the the results speak for themselves usually and we just don't hide that from from anyone. Speaking of that, along those same lines, I heard you do this you do something that uh uh is a little controversial these days, but but you did this a long time ago, which is you send it weekly email asking what did you get done this week and you share what you get got done this week. Uh talk about just that. Yeah. Yeah. So, so it became a a meme uh what was it like one or two years ago. I used to do it before that I should uh I should say and I should also clarify that I don't actually have an expectation that that that people are going to send that to me.

It's something I do myself. No. So I'll I'll uh sort of like go over what I did in the week, what worked, what didn't work. Uh even what interesting things I discovered uh and I will share that with uh the executive team with uh with our CEO who I report to. Uh I'll share that some some of them with with my team. It's basically helps me keep track of of of what's working, what's not working. I I usually also get feedback on on those emails uh or help or uh saying like, well, let's talk about this and this and that. So, I got something super simple that anyone can do, right? You you can write like a weekly email to your boss or to your team and saying like, well, this is this is what happened this week. This is uh what worked. This is what didn't work. This is maybe something I need help with or or something that's stuck. Uh maybe we can unlock it together. Uh I think it's strange that uh not I haven't heard a lot of people doing it. I think I actually read it somewhere uh a couple of years ago and that's probably where where I got the idea.

Uh I I'll look it up to see if we can link it on your uh on your notes. So I don't take credit for it. I wrote a post about this actually. I called it the state of me. Okay. Maybe it was you. I wonder if it was maybe it was you. Either way, I'll link to this post. And the whole idea, and there's like a less controversial way of asking this instead of what did you get done this week, which is I call it the state of me. I call it the state of Lenny email. And basically every week, it was a weekly thing for me, not a daily thing. I emailed my manager. Here's what I got done. Here's my next set of priorities. And here's blockers. I need you to help. Oh, I probably got it from you. It's sounding extremely familiar. So, I send the weekly email. I call it a weekly update. It's also not like what did I get done this week. It's it can be what I got done uh on the week, but like important things are happening, new releases. Uh that also frees up a lot of time uh for example with uh with my CEO uh where like okay on the weekly meeting we don't have to talk about like those specific things or we can pick out from that email uh what's relevant, what's working, what's not working.

So definitely a great tool and and and I'm pretty sure I got from from your post uh just hearing it. What a what a circle of life you've got here. Okay. So, speaking of things that you did before other people, something else that came up a lot in chatting with folks that worked with you is they pointed out that you're really good at not falling for hype cycles. You're good at being really pragmatic about things that are everyone's really excited about like crypto, genai these days. How do you approach stuff? How do you approach new things that everyone's like super excited about and uh not kind of fall into this trap of just like, oh, we got to pivot and do this thing that everyone else is doing? I I hadn't thought about it that way. Uh but it's true. Uh it it's true in some sense because it's not like I just ignore it. So I uh I think I I uh bought or even mined my my my first Bitcoin in like 2010 or 12 or or something like that. We can like leave it undisclosed how many and and and how many I still Why are you even working?

Uh no not not enough for that. Uh uh no a lot of great lessons on on on selling and and and when the right time and whatnot. I had I had those lessons too. So it's not like I I I ignored uh what was happening. No, but the the I'm definitely skeptic of most things. I would say even uh I like doing a lot of research. Uh deep research is is is a great tool like I use it all the time for for a lot of things. I do it myself u as well. So with crypto for example, I love the technology actually the I think there there there are some uh very fun breakthroughs there the the distributed uh consensus and how you get like uh a single thing but then you you start to run some of the numbers on like okay so uh what's the throughput and then what can you actually put in there at least with the technology that that we had uh at the time a lot of things are are moving quickly and you got layer two and layer three and and whatnot but I having a a good understanding of the fundamentals and also being involved probably in like what I would call quoteunquote the real world and a business and and like understanding the scale of uh what's necessary for for for things to work uh is it's helpful uh keeping a a level head know on like what are some of the main characteristics so we can talk and by the way like we we have crypto in and uh we have our own cryptocurrency.

So it's not like we uh to say like well crypto is is not useful and and it's actually very useful in uh in Latin America and countries where uh access to to US dollars are uh is not as easy as uh in in other places. Uh but I think going from that to saying like okay every single thing on the planet is going to run on the on the blockchain. That's where some of my alarms start to go off and it's like well can be a great technology and can be very successful without having to take over the the world. Uh which can also turn into AI or again the claims are that uh it will take over the the world and and and happy to talk about that. But just understanding the the uh the fundamentals of the technology that's being potentially hyped and uh having a good understanding of how it could be applied to something useful for for people. Uh I think it's where it's been helpful. Awesome. Okay, let's pivot to talking about you as a human. There's just like so many stories I heard from people that I want to hear about.

Okay, so one is that you built an app. you put on the app store. Steve Jobs called you and he's like, "Sbastian, we got to remove your app." Yeah. Talk about that story. Yeah. So, we should clarify that the app was a bit strange. Uh so, it was an an an app that literally helped you drain your phone's battery. Oh, the the the there were two reasons why why I made it. One was because I was like learning about all the different sensors on the on the phone like GPS and gyroscope and and and the screen and and whatnot. So I said like, "Okay, I'm going to turn them all on at the same time." Uh, and that's going to uh really warm up your your phone. Um, on the other end, uh there was like this this trend, I'm not even sure where where the that ended up where it was better for your phone to run completely out of battery and then recharge it. I think now the recommendation is actually that it should stay between like 10% and 80% uh at all times to to maintain battery health. I was like, "Okay, so when you have like 2% left and you just want to get it over with and and and get the battery down, you open this app and like drain it." Uh so I like that there's a reason for this because I I could see you just doing it for fun, but I like there's functionality here.

Yeah. Yeah. I I always try to make it useful u at least for for me. So I put it on on on the app store and and this was the time where uh like the app store was starting and and the app review process and and people were actually getting very mad that their apps were getting rejected. We're used to like a world where I just put my app out there and anyone can download it. So developers were were going to the press to say like well Apple is not approving my app and then articles will be written and it would be like a a PR thing. So, the executive team at Apple, including Steve, uh were actually calling developers uh to inform them that their apps were not going to be approved, that they were taken off the uh of the app store uh kind of like trying to avoid them going to the press and and just like being more personal and explaining what uh what was wrong with with the app. And so, so one day I'm walking in the street and and I get a phone and a blocked uh number like I can't identify it.

Pick up. Uh, I said, "Well, uh, hi Sebastian. This is Steve from Apple. I'm here to Well, I need to talk to you about your your app. Uh, we're not going to be able to to have it on the app store. This is draining people's batteries and and we don't want that for uh for people. Uh, I actually pushed back a little bit. Uh, I told like, well, you know, I I read all the rules uh of of the app store before making this app, and there's no rule against draining the the battery. uh and he told me check again because we just added a new rule uh that apps cannot overly drain the the the battery on on the phones. So I'm happy to say there is an app store rule that uh is was made specifically for for me uh at the time. I actually didn't realize I had uh spoken to Steve Jobs until like a couple minutes later. It was like well yeah someone called Steve from Apple. There's probably a lot of Steves. I was like, "Well, you know, that that voice sounded extremely familiar." And uh I was like, "Okay." And then articles started popping up of like Steve and and the rest of the executive team calling developers to to let them know that that this was happening.

Uh so I was happy to confirm that I had uh at least had a short phone conversation with with Steve. Uh quite the legend. That is an incredible story. First of all, I just love that Steve Jobs was calling random app developers himself founder, right? Like how did he have the time? I just love that he took, you know, that they realized this is important and if people hear from us, that'll actually go over better. Uh even though people kept posting, right? Like people are like Steve Jobs called me should touch down my app. So a little backfired maybe. Uh and he how did he sound? Was he just like did he was he this nice radical cander balance of of nice and Yeah. Yeah. Uh, and it's not what you would against stereotypically hear from him. No, he was a lot more mercurial, I think is a term that that people use. Uh, but none of that on on the call. He was actually pretty nice and and chill and said like, well, we're not going to allow your app, just matter of fact. Yeah. Uh, and then you said that they added this rule as they before he called you.

We have a new rule. I guess they could do that, right? It's like our place, our store. Wow. Okay. Amazing story. Uh, did that discourage you from building more apps or you just like, "Holy this is No, absolutely no." I was very happy to talk to Steve. I I sent him a few uh emails. Uh, I never got a reply to be honest, but yeah, send some emails on on feedback on again like the App Store, the iOS, and whatnot. I was super young by the way at the time. I think I was like uh 16 or or 17, 17 or 18 when uh when I developed that that app. Uh so I was like yeah I didn't know what it meant no to to to get a call from him and and uh to send him emails and expect a reply and and whatnot. Uh so it was a a fun experience and um I I kept building more apps. I actually started a mobile app development company u a few months after after that which is another another fun story. Well maybe this is the story but I know that at 19 you built an app that became the number one app in 19 countries.

maybe just briefly share that story. That one is super fun. Um, so I had a girlfriend who I really liked at the time. I don't know if if if that happened in the US, but in many Latin American countries and I think throughout the world, uh, phone companies came out with something where you could call five numbers for five minutes for free, like a five for five for five. So I had my girlfriend's number on there and we would talk for for for five minutes. But what they did is if you went over like one second, they would charge the whole five minutes. Uh and and and and phone bills were expensive. Now, uh we're going to sound like old people when when we talk about this soon. It was like a a big deal, especially for for for a teenager. No, I didn't have like money to throw around and and uh on on my phone bill. So, I made this app that was extremely simple. It alarmed you or like it sent a notification when you're close to reaching the 5 minutes. So, you could just hang up and call again and have another five, three minutes and then call again.

I did it for myself. Uh it turned out to be a good investment because I ended up marrying my uh girlfriend. Uh and she's still my wife and we have a a beautiful family together. Uh it also turned out to be a a good business decision. So it cost $100, I think it still does, to to upload an app to the app store. So I thought, okay, I need to sell like around 100 copies. I mean, there are fees and whatnot, but let's say I have to sell 100 copies for $1, so I'll put on the app store. That was my business plan. And it absolutely exploded. uh it became the top selling app in Mexico and in a lot of other different countries. Uh it was not not a free app. Uh and it was also like completely local. So there was like no backend, no cost, no advertising. Uh so it was a very profitable uh endeavor that also very quickly turned into a business in itself. Oh, but and then uh a separate business where people this was when the the app store was just starting when the iPhone was was getting big.

Uh so I actually got contacted by a lot of different companies like multinationals, governments, no saying like well you have the number one app so we want you to build an app for us. Uh there weren't that many people into uh iPhone OS at the time it was called uh development who knew Objective C and and all the ways to to build a good app. So I started building apps myself for a bunch of different people and companies. Um eventually I couldn't scale that and had to hire people. So, I hired my friends from from college and taught them how to do uh apps. Uh we actually all learned from uh a free online course uh from Stanford. It was a great course on on how to build apps. Uh because I remember going to to my university professors and saying, "Hey, the iPhone is cool. I want to learn how to like make these apps. Who can teach me?" And they're like, "No one. Like, this is new. Like, no one knows how to uh how to do it." So, I also had to learn on my on my own. But then I was able to to teach people, turned that into a mobile app development company.

Did that for about two years. Uh and it turns out to be a very good business. But it's also like boring to have to start over new projects and new projects and new projects. I I like going deep into things and iterating and actually creating products that that that people love. Uh so we decided to sell the consulting side of of that keep the the mainly mobile team uh instead of working on fun products that that we could uh like actually scale and scale exponentially. One of those was ordering ordering taxis from your phone. No. So at the time uh Uber was starting in in San Francisco. They started kind of like a private network of of of drivers and like fancy cars and uh uh eventually it was open to uh to a lot of people. So, I thought, well, that would work great for for taxis and and Mexico City is is a city with the most taxis on the planet, uh, at least outside u Asia. And the the at the time in San Francisco, for example, at least taxis had kind of like a clunky computer and they were like these tracked by GPS or whatnot.

But like in Mexico, they use radios and you had to call a number and you never knew if your taxi was coming or not. So, we developed a very simple test. It sounds silly now that these companies are are huge, but I was actually like not sure are people going to trust uh getting on a car that they got from a phone in Mexico City uh when your parents have told you like don't trust people on the internet and and don't get into strangers cars. So, we're like combining two things that that that people were taught not to do by their by their parents. We decided to just do the passenger app uh and test whether people uh actually like this. So when you requested a car, we would call uh a taxi company and basically just call for you and send the the the car over. And that was enough for it to explode. Like we could not deal with the demand. We actually had to build like an intermediary call center to like call other call centers. Uh while we developed the driver side of the of the marketplace and and actually got drivers on on board.

And once you got the flywheel and then you got a lot of drivers and a lot of writers and the network effects, uh, then it started to to scale and and work. Uh, that was a a fun experience. Oh man, you're just a well of fascinating stories. I love this kind of journey sharing of just like at 16, I think you built that app that Steve Jobs called you about, is right? Yeah. Yeah, maybe seven. Okay. From that to now managing something like 18,000 engineers. I love this journey. Uh, also competing with Uber along the way. Yeah. Yeah. very intense competition. I've always enjoyed competition. That's the epitome of intense competition from what I hear. Uh okay. Another uh interesting thing about you that I've heard is that you drink you drink no alcohol, which I think is common these days, but this something you've been doing for a long time. You also drink no tea, no coffee, no juice, no soda, just water. Well, what's going on there? Why is that? I just love water. Water is is amazing. Uh I think it's not the like the same reason for for everything. It has turned now into like well I'm happy with water.

Like why do I have to like alter my brain with uh chemicals? Like I like my brain. We have a good relationship and uh I uh I sleep well and I don't feel like I need uh stimulants of of any kind. Uh I already have a lot of fun. Uh it did start in different ways. So the the legal drinking age in in Mexico is 18. Um a lot like younger than than in the US. Uh so people actually start drinking when they're 16, right? Uh so very early I got to see like the effects of at least drinking a lot can have on on on your body and and uh I just never wanted to be in in that situation where I didn't have like control of of my destiny. And and I mean control, right? We don't have a lot of control on our destinies, but at least you know like physical control of like I want to walk there and can I walk there? Uh I think that really marks you when you see like young people over drinking. It's not a a fun picture. Then I understand people like adults can drink responsibly and and have fun with with friends and whatnot.

But I never got into it. And I think if you it's like an acquired taste. Uh I don't particularly enjoy the the flavor of like beer and and and and different alcohols. Coffee, it's also similar. I don't like how it tastes. It tastes extremely bitter to me. I also think it's an acquired taste where it's like, okay, well, the effect is great because I get like a lot of energy and then you start to like appreciate the the flavor, but I don't think it starts with the with the flavor. So again, I never got into it. Uh tea I think is is something that I could drink but I just never think of uh of drinking it. Uh and I'll probably erase you even one stranger that uh I don't know if my my uh the friends you you interviewed mentioned but I actually also don't listen to a lot of music. So uh when I program I like to program in silence uh which I know seems like extremely strange to to to a lot of programmers and and developers. Uh, and I think the reason for that one and also talking about the the interesting background is my my dad's an orchestra conductor.

Uh, so I went to maybe like hundreds of concerts uh for big orchestras and backstage and it was actually uh very fun, but I think I had enough music for for for a while. Uh, and it's not like I don't enjoy music. My wife is really into music and we listen to music together uh and with our kids and and everything, but I I never have like the idea of uh of putting on music myself. So, that's another strange one to share. That was a good one. I not heard that one. Uh and then another couple things I heard is that you basically don't do any social media. You also don't watch the news. Uh you don't watch TV really. Is that all true? That is true. That is true. uh for a really long time. We didn't even have a TV like uh like the device. No. Uh we we bought one uh when uh my son was born and we couldn't go to the movies anymore cuz I do like like media. No, I like I like movies from time to time. Uh we do watch shows from time to time, but we can watch them on an iPad.

I think it's a lot less addictive if the if the screen is small. Uh so even though we have a a TV now, we don't we don't use it very often. Uh I love reading uh I and the the social media thing I think it's worth uh qualifying as well. Like I enjoy X a lot like Twitter uh and reading like what people are thinking, what's happening, what's not happening. Uh that's probably like my my main source of news. Uh I don't follow any like news organizations just because I feel like I'm going to find out if something extremely important is happening. Uh like now the the the whole political and geopolitical environment is extremely volatile and I hear about that from like people that that I follow and sometimes I'll retweet articles and and I'll read them. Uh, I there was a a fun memory of of my childhood when we had a TV in the in the house and and my mom, who's also a very curious character, stuck uh a sign to it that said everything you see here is a lie. She stuck the sign to the front to the TV.

Yeah. I don't think she meant it for like news and she didn't get into the whole misinformation thing and and and whatnot. It was mostly on like, oh well, you're going to watch cartoons of like people flying and be careful like don't jump off the the roof of the house. And I think it was more more uh in that sense, but it probably stuck with me of uh like being very independent-minded and do your own research and and uh actually understand what you're uh hoping for and and and what you want to do. Again, I'm not like uh closing my ears and eyes to to what's happening in in the world. And I do follow a lot of uh like tech coverage and and that I enjoy a lot like new programming languages, new frameworks, new model developments. Uh so when I talk about news, it's probably like the bad news that I think people can sometimes even get addicted to of like, okay, if I turn on the TV and put the local news channel, it's just going to be bad news. Uh and I know that like statistically it's not all bad news.

So, why am I going to like watch a show that's pointing out very unique things that don't happen very often that are uh not happy stories? I don't know who said this once, but it's always stuck with me along these lines of what you just said that we're just not designed to know all the bad things happening in the world every day. Like, we lived in small tribes where a couple maybe something bad happened that day. We're not evolved to comprehend so many calamities globally that we should not even know. Absolutely. Right. Out of I can't imagine our brains were uh evolved into well, you know, you open your phone and you get like unlimited information about any single topic that that you want. Uh I think you have to be like purposeful of what you're reading, what you're seeing. You can find absolutely anything. Amazing things, horrible things. So why am I going to like focus on the horrible things? I love that and I feel the same way. Uh this is such a cool glimpse into just what it takes to be uh extremely successful to go from building this app that Steve drop shut down to running a company and a team this size.

Uh is there anything else along those lines that we haven't talked about that might be helpful for folks either about how you operate as a human morning routine trick? I don't know anything else that we haven't touched on along those lines. I don't have uh as strict a routine as you would expect when you talk like to executives and and whatn not like well this is the time that I do this the time that I do this. Uh I think what's worked great for me is to follow my curiosity. Uh thankfully I think I have good intuition. Uh but even like in life and in in my work uh like it's hard to say like well this is a formula for what you should focus on today. It's like I have an intuition of what I'm most curious about. Uh and and thankfully that usually aligns with what we should be working on and and where I can add the the most value to to my teams, to to the company, to my family, to my career, to to to the things I'm I'm learning. Um so I think that that's probably what's been the guiding principle for me.

Oh, like follow your your curiosity, what excites you. Uh, it's also probably what you're going to be good at. No, because it's hard to compete with someone who loves what they're doing if you don't love that thing. No, but if you go in and say, "Well, this is my curiosity. This is what I love. Uh, I'm probably going to be good at it and and it's not going to be like something I have to force myself into." No. So, I think that that's something that I've done throughout my whole life and and career that's uh worked very well. I had Toby Lutkkey on the podcast and we were talking talking about raising kids for a little bit and we chatted about what do you want your kid to learn most like what's the most important trait to develop and his his inkling is developing curiosity. Developing curiosity I think I I I would agree. I think the the the other one that you need is probably it's also a trending topic now, but agency. I was saying like it's not probably enough to just be curious, but like be curious and and and go get what you what you want.

Uh we were raised in a very uh intensely independent way. So my uh my mother mainly uh had these fun ideas on on how she wanted us to to be no. She wanted us to be able to handle quote unquote any situation. And uh the analogy that that like spies. Uh so so I was I was thinking Sparta. Yeah. Sparta. Well, I I I'll share one fun story. Uh one one morning she wakes us up like, "Hey, we're going camping. Uh everyone get ready." Like no warning. No, we're we're leaving right now. Uh I remember uh my my little brother just so you understand how how how that plant worked. His only question was should I go in my pajamas or should I change uh for something? Uh so we go and uh turns out we're we're I think it would be actually hard to call it camping because we we we're camping with no gear. No. So it was a a survival camp training uh is what we were going to do. Uh there was an instructor and it wasn't like uh completely uh irresponsible, but it was like find your own water, build your own shelter, boil it, start your own fire.

Uh that was a fun one. Uh another fun one, and that was to celebrate New Year's. Uh another fun one was she would drop us in the like in the middle of the city as this is Mexico City. Uh she says she would then just like leave us alone. I don't remember. I think she was just following us, but uh it would be like you have to get back home. uh and then you have to like know public transit or ask someone for help and basically like uh solve problems. Uh she would send us on international trips also alone. So I I think there there were many things that she did uh she she called it independence though she she wanted us to be independent. I think the term that we could use now is like agency of like solve your problems just go and get things and and and get things done. Uh so I think that was also very formative of of of the way I am and I approach uh different problems. Do you feel like she might have actually been training you to be a spy? Maybe we we also did a lot of uh skiing, biking, uh trekking and and you know like also the action parts of the u of the spy experience.

Uh we we used to tease her still that she she didn't enjoy activities that didn't have like a liability release uh before you uh before you did them. Uh so yeah, repel climbing. Uh we had a a very fun childhood. This explains a lot. I feel like I could do another hour just diving into your childhood and what made you who you are today, but maybe we'll save that for part two. Uh, I feel like we've did an uh, we've done a great job giving people a sense of just how interesting you are as a person and also just the uniqueness of Marcato Libre and what they've built and the business that you help run. Is there anything else that we haven't touched on that you think might be helpful to folks or that you want to leave listeners with before we get to our very exciting lightning round? I think we covered a lot. I also uh, happy to to be able to share. know doesn't operate in the US. I think that's the main reason why it's like not a such a well-known uh tech company. I think it's changing uh with the stock growing as well.

It it helps like a lot of people actually uh know it from investing and and and being very happy with the with the performance. Uh so, thank you for for for letting me share some of what we do and some of what I've been doing. Absolutely. And with that, we've reached our very exciting lightning round. I've got five questions for you. Are you ready? I'm ready. What are two or three books that you recommend most to other people? This is a good one. I think it it depends on like the the person that I'm recommended to. I I try to actually make it relevant to to what they're doing. Uh if we go like statistically, uh it's usually within the company. So uh management related high output management I think is a is a great one. Uh but I also have been recently recommending people read the Odyssey. Uh it's a super super uh like inspiring uh story like it's not a coincidence that it's uh survived for for for thousands of years. It's like a really fun read and and uh something that just resonates with u with a lot of people. Um another book that that I really like is called The Dream Machine.

uh and it's kind of like the the the story of uh computers and computing and uh the internet and and uh like for example why is Ethernet called Ethernet? Uh there was alohaet before. Uh so I think that's also a great one to to understand some of like the things that the that we rely on and and these sort of like we stand in the shoulders of of giants constantly to to build the things we do. I think that's that's another great one and because the rest are probably more fiction and I love Dune, I love science fiction and uh what you would expect. Okay, this next question. I know you don't watch TV so let me just ask is there a favorite recent movie that you've watched that you really enjoyed? Yeah. Yeah. I mean recent uh I I don't go to the movies as often as I used to since I uh had kids. Uh sometimes we we go with them. I think probably the the last one that resonated with me or that I thought was awesome was Everything Everywhere All at Once. Uh just really fun movie, great acting, lowbudget. I didn't know when when I watched it at the time.

I sort of like did did research on it later. Uh that one was was super fun. Uh Dune I enjoyed a lot because uh I like the the books. It's one of my favorite books. Uh but I do watch uh children's shows uh from time to time there. I'm sure someone has probably mentioned Bluey already. Uh but it's amazing. Uh it's really wellm made for the kids, for the parents. Uh great messages. Uh great animation. That's just uh a gem that that I really recommend. Yeah, Blue does come up a bunch. I feel like it's one of the more mentioned uh shows. Do you interview a lot of parents as well then? I guess I do. And I'm I'm a new parent, so I think that I'm pulling them in. Uh okay. Okay. Do you have a favorite product that you've recently discovered that you really love? Yeah, this one is going to be fun uh for you as well as a parent. Uh I'm not sure if you've heard of Menava. Uh just a No, it's a new kind of like way of teaching uh kids to read. Uh they Oh, the company. Okay.

Yes. Say more. Yeah. Yeah. Uh so I mean it's a product and it's great. I uh did it with my son and um kind of like I quote unquote taught him how to read using the the program. Uh and now he's probably the the top reader in in in his class. Uh how old is he? So so he's uh five. Uh and it's actually designed for three, four, five year olds. Uh, so I was probably late to to to the reading early bandwagon because that I haven't really uh seen strong evidence that it actually changes outcomes uh in the future. The best argument I've I've seen for it uh from Matt Baitman, I'm not sure if you're familiar with him, but he's great on on education and and and Montasari is that it can lead to a very enjoyable childhood if you can read early. So, if you're like a a four-year-old, a 5-year-old that can read very well, you'll have a fun childhood with access to to to a lot more information. Uh, so for us, it wasn't like a reading early. It was just making sure you have a really good fundamental on on reading because it's just a base skill that uh propagates to to the rest.

And in that vein, actually, uh, Beast Academy for math is another great one that uh I I would recommend to uh to parents. Um, that one's great. Uh, and maybe the the the last product I would mention, uh, David protein bars. They're very good. I, uh, really like weightlifting. It's it's sort of like one of the things I do to get my my my blood flowing. Uh, super high quality ingredients, very high protein. Uh, I think it's actually a venturebacked company. I've haven't talked to the founders, but reach out. Uh, I would love to to meet you. You guys are doing something fun. Uh, so I think th those are the ones that come to mind. 3D printers are also fun. I made a telescope with my son a couple of months ago. That was very fun. Yeah, there's a lot of new products now. It's a fun time to be alive. This is your category right here. Cool, fun gadgets and products. I Yeah, I feel like we This could be another hour of podcasting probably. Okay, two more questions. One, do you have a favorite life motto that you often come back to find useful in work or in life?

That life and the world are malleable. No, like the things aren't as set in stone as uh as you would think. There's usually a way to to to get what you're after. Uh you actually have to be careful, I think, about what you want because if you have like enough agency, you can probably get quote unquote anything. So, make sure you're uh looking for for for something good and that you're going to be happy with the with the result. But that's probably the main one. I've heard it phrased in many different ways. Uh Steve Jobs said of like well you know the world was built by people like you like me uh some of them not smarter than you some of them may be smarter than you uh so you can just go out and and do things. This is a new meme no and and the world will probably reconfigure itself to to help you which is that one's from from Mark Andre. Uh so yeah just understanding that that you can uh actually change the world doesn't have to be in a massive way. It's also possible uh just in uh not just getting locked down to well you know this is how it's done or this is the culture here or uh this is how it's always been done.

Uh I think we can change whatever we want. What I'm hearing is your mom's goal of instilling agency in new work. I would say so. Uh yes, I uh I have fun solving problems. Just finding your way home from the center of Mexico City worked. Final question. Uh a colleague of yours, maybe friend Christopher Lazarus, wanted me to ask you about something called the Tatami Project. Does that ring a bell? Talk about what that was. Yeah. Yeah, that's from a long time ago. So, you did your very good research. Um yeah, talking about agency, at some point I wanted to have what's called uh I think it's called Tammy room. I'm not an expert, but basically a room in your house where you have tatamies and you can like meditate there or train or or or practice. Uh my room um like my childhood bedroom was strange in that it had kind of like a basement. So it like two floors you could open a hatch on the floor and and go down. I think it was like a thing from how the house was built. Uh I I uh decided that that was the best place for uh putting the the tamies.

Uh but I didn't want to have like a roof on top of that. So I went and bought like construction gear and like huge diamond cutters. Uh and actually cut a big hole in the middle of my uh of my room. Uh put a stair and put the the Tamies underneath. So, I kind of like turned my uh my room into uh a two floor loft. Uh which was pretty fun. Uh I hadn't thought about that in in a while. I used to do a lot of uh hacker projects and maker things and I love I love using my hands. I love building products, technology, code, but also like physical things. U had a lot of fun with Arduinos and building tiny robots. Yeah, that's a that's a fun memory. But I did uh put a hole in the middle of my room. Uh my parents were always happy with us having projects. Uh I was going to ask how did your mom feel about this? I don't think they they they were thinking about like the the future sale value of the house or or whatnot. It actually turned out to be uh I think people were interested.

They didn't sell the house, but they used to rent it and I was like, "Well, this is like strange. Maybe we'll put like something here." and and uh it turned out to be uh a good decision but they were very open to us exploring and and making mistakes. I think going back even to to the start of our conversation on on on how to not get stuck uh as a big company as a as a big team you need to make mistakes and and and take risks and that's something that that was always uh encouraged by my parents. That is a hilarious story. And just to be clear, it's a Tommy Matt. It's like a thin mattress basically. Tami is uh not something you would sleep on directly, but it's kind of made out of bamboo. Like if if you like Google for just a Japanese house, no. Um what they have on the floor is uh at the Tammy like block. Uh so they'll put two, three, five, 10 together. Uh so it's kind of like that green floor that that that you see in many like traditional hotels or or photos. Uh, so I made kind of like a miniature version of that in the uh newly added second floor of my room.

Uh, Sebus, this was everything I was hoping it'd be. We covered so much ground. Uh, you, the company, things you've learned. I feel like we could do another follow-up with just as many insights and lessons and stories. But, uh, other than that, two final questions. Where can folks find you online if they want to reach out, learn more? And how can listeners be useful to you? Perfect. I am not so active on Twitter. I mostly uh read and and uh find interesting ideas. Uh but happy to to to see you there. Uh LinkedIn is another one. I know uh some people who are very into X and Twitter actually don't like LinkedIn a lot, but I think both work and and and they're both uh they'll both have have their place. Uh so yeah, happy to connect and feel free to reach out. uh something that I love about the the tech industry, uh you can just just do things. Just reach out to people and they'll probably help be helpful and and help you. That has certainly been the case with me and I'm also happy to do that for anyone who has any question or or wants to connect.

Amazing. Sus, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for hosting me. This was awesome. Happy to to be here. Awesome. It's my pleasure. Bye, everyone. Thank you so much for listening. If you found this valuable, you can subscribe to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or your favorite podcast app. Also, please consider giving us a rating or leaving a review as that really helps other listeners find the podcast. You can find all past episodes or learn more about the show at lennispodcast.com. See you in the next episode.
